Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 


It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


atthtto: //books.gqoogle.com/ 


ANDOVER- HARY ARD LERARY | 


Harvard Depository 
Brittle Book 








ji j! mi — 


f ili 
iy i | 
i ni 


a — i) (bg iua — 
<a - a at oi uit fa Hh Wil Hh iN an S ’ 


eur al 9 ff His 
OO Gc: i g 


— 


uN SOY a i 4 lf N ai APA WAU Me) 


rw * ‘wa a 


KPOr wasi 

















THE 


BOOK OF MORMON. 


Qe 





TRANSLATED BY 


JOSEPH SMITH, Jr. 





THIRD EDITION, 


CAREFULLY REVISED BY THE TRANSLATOR. 


' NAUVOO, ILL: ~ 
PRINTED SY ROBINSON AND SMITH, 


STEREOTYPED BY SHEPARD AND STEARNS, 
West nd St. Cincinnati, Ohio, 








Entrnzp according to act of Congress in the year 1829, by 
JOSEPH SMITH, Jz. 
in the Clerk’s Office of the Northern District of New York, 





sa 


EE — — Se CE 


An abridgment taken from the book of Ether: also 





-6 


h hee ‘al a — 


THE 


BOOK OF MORMON. 


AN ACCOUNT WRITTEN BY THE HAND OF MORMON 


UPON PLATES TAKEN FROM THE 
PLATES OF NEPHI. 


Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, 


and also of the Lamanites; written to the Lamanites, who are a rem- 
nant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile; written by 
way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of rev- 
elation. Written, and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lorp, that 
they might not be destroyed; to come forth by the gift and power of 
Gop unv the interpretation thereof; sealed by the hand of Moroni, 
and hid up unto the Lorp, to come forth in due time by the way of 
Gentile; the interpretation thereof by the gift of Gop: 


which is a record 
of the people of Jared; who were scattered at the time the Lorn con- 
founded the langusse of the pcople, when they were building a tower 
to get to heaven: which is to shew unto the remnant of the house of 
israel what great pal the Lorp hath done for their fathers; and 
that they may know the covenants of the Lorp, that they are not 
cast off forever; and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile 
that Jesus is the Curis, the ETERNAL Gop, manifesting himself 
unto all nations. And now if there are faults, they are the mistakes 
of men; wherefore, condemn not the things of Gop, that ye may be 
found spotless at the judgment seat of CHRIST. M 
ORONI. 


THE FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI: 
HIS REIGN AND MINISTRY. 
CHAPTER I. 


An account of Lehi and his wife, Sariah, and his four sone, 
being called, (beginning at the eldest,) Laman, Lemuel, 
Sam, and Nephi. The Lord warns Lehi to depart out o 
e E UET beide Ae pr hesieth unto 
people concerning their iniquity: a seek to destroy 

is life. He taketh three day's journey into the wilderness 
with his family. Nephi taketh his brethren and returns to 
the land of Jerusalem after the record of the Jews. The 
account of their sufferings. They take the daughters of 
Lhmael to wife. They take their families and depart into 
the wilderness. Their sufferings and afflictions in the wil- 
derness. The course of their travels. They come to the 
large waters. Nephi’s brethren rebelleth against him. He 
confoundeth them, and buildeth a ship. They call the name 
of the place Bountiful. They cross the large waters into 
promised land, &c. T his is according to the account of 
Nephi; or, in other words, I, Nephi, wrote this record. 


I, Nrru}, having been born of goodly parents, therefore 
Į was taught somewhat in all the learning of my fath®r; 
and having seen many afflictions in the course of my days 
—nevertheless, having been highly favored of the Lord in 
all my days; yea, having had a — knowledge of the 
goodness end the mysteries of God, therefore I make a re- 
cord of my proceedings in my days; yea, I make a record 
in the language of my father, which consists of the learn- 
ing of the Jews and the len of the Egyptians. And 
I know that tho record which I make is true; and I make 
it with mine own hand; and I make it according to my 
knowledge. 
For it came to pass, in the commencement of the first 
ear of the reign ef Zedekiah, king of Judah, (my father 
hi having dwelt at Jerusalem in all his daysg) and in 
that same year there came many prophets, prophesying 
unto the people, that they must repent, or the great city 
Jerusalem must be destroyed. Wherefore, it came to pass, . 
that my father Lehi, as he went forth, prayed unto the 
Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in behalf of his people. 


8 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


And it came to pasa, as he prayed unto the Lord, there 
came a pillar of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and 
he saw and heard much; and becayse of the things which 
he saw and heard, he did quake and tremble exceedingly. 

And it came to pass that he returned to his own house 
at Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed, being over- 
come with the spirit and the things which he had seen; 
and being thus overcome with the spirit, he was carried 
away in a vision, even that he saw the heavens apen, and 
he thought he saw God sitting upon his throne, surrounded 
with numberless concourses of angels in the attitude of 
singin and praising their God. 

nd it came to pass that he saw one descending out of 
the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his lustre was 
above that of the sun at noon-day; and he also saw twelve 
others following him, and their brightness did exceed that 
of the stars in the firmament; and they came down and 
went forth upon the face of the earth; and the first came 
and stood before my father, and gave unto him a book, 
and bade him that he should read. 

And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with 
the spirit of the Lord, and he read saying, Wo, wo unto 
Jerusalem! for I have seen thine abominations; yea, and 
many things did my father read concerning Jerusalem— 
thet it should be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof, 
many should perish by the sword, and many should be 
carried away captive into Babylon. 

And it came to pass that when my father had read and 
saw*many great and marvellous things, he did exclaim: 
many things unto the Lord: such as, great and marvellous 
are thy works, O Lord God Almighty! Thy throne is high- 
in the heavens, and thy power, and goodness, and mercy 
are over all the inhabitants of the earth; and because thou 
art merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who come unto thee 


that they shall perish! And after this manner wasthe len-- 


uage of my father in the praising of his God; for his soul 
did rejoice, and his whole heart was filled because of the: 
things which he had seen; yea, which the Lord had shewn 
untohim. And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account. 
of the things which my father had wrigten, for he hath 
written things which he saw in visions and in dreams, 
and he k hath written many things which he prophesied: 
and spake unto his children, of which I shall not make a 
full account; but I shall make an account of my proceed- 
ings in my days. Behold I make an abridgement of the 
record of my father, upon plates. which I have made. with 
mine own hands; wherefore, aftes I have abridged the ro 





FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 5 9 


cord of my father, then will I make an account of mine 
own life. 

Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the 
Lord had shewn so many marvellous things unto my father 
Lehi, yea, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, behold 
he went forth among the people, and began to prophesy 
and to declare unto them concerning the things which he 
had beth seen and heard. 

And it came to pase that the Jews did mock him because 
of the things which he testified of them: for he truly testi- 
fied of their wickedness and their abominations; and he 
teatified that the things which he saw and heard, and also the 
things which he read in the book, manifested plainly of the 
coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world. 

And when the Jews heard these things, they were angry 
with him ; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they 
had cast out and stoned and slain; and they also sought 
his life, that they might take it away. But behold, I, Ne- 
phi, will shew unto you that the tender mercies of the Lord 
are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of their 
faith, to make thom mighty even unto the power of deliv- 
erance. 

For behold it came to pasa that the Lord spake unto m 
father, yea, even in a dream, and said unto him, blesse 
art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; 
and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this 
people the things which I commanded thee, behold they 
seck to take away thy life. 

And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, 
even in a dream, that he should take his family and depart 
into the wilderness. And it came to pass that he was obe- 
dient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the 
Lord commanded him. 

And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. 
And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and 
his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took 
nothing with him save it were his family, and provisions, 
and tents, and departed into the wilderness; and he came 
down by the borders near the shore of the Red Sea; and | 
he travelled in the wilderness in the borders which™are 
nearer the Red Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness 
with his family, which consisted of my mother, Sariah, and 
my elder brothers, who were Laman, Lemuel and am. 

And it came to pass that when he had travelled three 
days in the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley by 
the side of a river of water. And it came to pass that he 


10 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


built an altar of stones, and made an offering unto the Lord, 
and gave thanks unto the Lord our God. And it came to 

ass thathe called the name of the.river, Laman, and it 
emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the bor- 
ders near the mouth thereof. 

And when my father saw that the waters of the river 
emptied into the fountain'of the Red Sea, he spake unto 
Laman, saying, O that thou mightest be like unto this riv- 
er, continually running into the fountain of all righteous- 
ness. And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou might- 
est be like unto this valley, firm, and steadfast, and immo- 
vable in keeping the commandments of the Lord. Now 
this he spake because of the stiffneckedness of Laman and 
Lemuel, for behold they did murmur in many things against 
their father, because he was a visionary man, and had led 
them out of the land of Jerusalem, to leave the land of 
their inheritance, and their gold, and their silver, and their 
precious things, to perish in the wilderness. And this, the 
said, he had done, because of the foolish imaginations of 
his heart. And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, 
did murmur against their father. And they did murmur 
because they knew not the dealings of that God who had 
created them. Neither did they believe that Jerusalem, 
that great city, could be destroyed according to the words 
of the prophets. And they were like unto the Jews, who 
— at Jerusalem, who sought to take away the life of my 

ather. 

And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them 
in the valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled with the 
spirit, until their frames did shake before him. And he 
did confound them, that they durst not utter against him; 
wherefore, they did as he commanded them. And my father 
dwelt in a tent. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceeding 
young, nevertheless being large in stature, and aleo having 

reat desires to know of the mysteries of God, wherefore 
f did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and 
did soften my heart that I did believe all the words which 
had been spoken by my father; wherefore I did not rebel 
against him like unto my brothers. And I spake unto Sam, 
making known unto him the things which the Lord had 
manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit. 

And it came to pass that he believed in my words; but 
behold Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto m 
words. And being grieved because of the hardness o 
their hearts, I cried unto the Lord for them. 

And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, say- 





0 Ree eel el —— * i: mai, ia ne EAE, (Retr el 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 1k 


ing: blessed art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith, for thou 
hast sought me diligently, with lowliness of heart. And 
inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall 

rosper, and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a 
í fand which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is 
choice above all other lands. And inasmuch as thy breth- 
ren shall rebel against thee, they shall be cut off from the 
presence of the Lord. And inasmuch as thou shalt keep 
my commandments, thou shalt be made a ruler and a teach- 
erover thy brethren. For behold, in that day that they 
shall rebel against me, I will curse them even with a sore 
curse, and they shall have no power over thy seed, except 
they shall rebel against me also. And if it so be that they 
rebel against me, they shall bea scourge unto thy seed, to 
stir them up in the ways of remembrance. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from speak- 
ing with the Lord, to the tent of my father. And it came 
to pasa that he spake unto me, saying, Behold I have dream- 
ed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me 
that thou and thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem. For 
behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews, and also a ge- 
nealogy of my forefathers, and they ar engraven upon 
plates of brass. Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me 
that thou and thy brothers should go unto the house of La-: 
ban, and seek the records, and bring them down hither into 
the wilderness. And, now, behold, thy brothers murmur, 
saying, it is a hard thing which I have required of them; 
but behold I have. not required it of them, but it is a com- 
mandment of the Lord. Therefore go my son, and thoushalt 
be favored of the Lord, because thou hast not murmured. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father, 
I will go and do the things which the Lord hath command- 
ed, for E know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto 
the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them 
— they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth 
them. 

And it came to pass that when my father had heard these 
words, he was exceeding glad, for he knew that I had 
been blessed of the Lord. And I, Nephi, and my breth- 
ren, took our journey in the wilderness with our tents, to 
go up to the land of Jerusalem. 

And it came to pass that when we had come up to the 
land of Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult one with 
another; and we east lots who of us should go in unto the 
house of Laban. And it came to pass that the lot fell upon 
Laman; and Lamen went in unto the house of Laban, and 
he talked with him as he sat in his house. And he desired 


13 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHL 


of Laban the records which were Sagraven upon the plates 
of brass, which contained the genealogy of my father. 

And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and 
thrust him out from his presence; and he would not that 
he should have the records. Wherefore, he said unto him, 
behold thou art a robber, and I will slay thee. But Laman 
fled out of his presence, and told the things which Laban 
had done, unto us. And:we began to be exceeding sor- | 
rowful, and my brethren were about to return unto my 
father in the wilderness. But behold I said unto them, that 
asthe Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down 
unto our father in the wilderness, until we have accom- 

lished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.— 
herefore, let us be faithfulin keeping the command- 
ments of the Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of 
our father’s inheritance, for behold he left gold and silver, 
and all manner of riches. And all this he hath done, be- 
cause of the commandments of the Lord; for he knew 
that Jerusalem must be destroyed, because of the wicked- 
ness of the people, l 

For behold, ng have rejected the words of the proph- 
ets. Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after 
he hath been commanded to flee out of the land, behold he 
would also perish. Wherefore it must needs be that he flee 
out of the land. And behold, it is wisdom in God that we 
should obtain these records, that we may preserve unto our 
children the language of our fathers; and also that we may 
preserve unto them the words which have been spoken by 
the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have been de- 
livered unto them by the spirit and power of God, since 
the world began, even down unto this present time. 

And it came to pass that after this manner of language 
did I persuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in 
keeping the commandments of God. And it came to pass 
that we went down to the land of our inheritance, and we 
did gather together our gold, and our silver, and our pre- 
cious things. And after we had gathered these things to- 
gether, we went up again unto the house of Laban. 

And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and 
desired him that he would give unto us the records which 
Were engraven upon the plates of brass, for which we 
would give unto him our gold, and our silver, and all our 
precious things. 

And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, 
and that it was exceeding great, he did lust after it, inso- 
much that he thrust us out, and sent his servants to 
_ Slay us, that he might obtain our property. And it came 


BIRST BOOK (OF NEDHI. 13 


te pams that wo did flee before the servants of Laben, and 
we were obliged to leave behind our property, amd it fell 
into the hands of Laban. 

And it came to pass that we fled inte the wilderness, 
and the servants of Laban did not overtake us, and we hid 
ourselves in the cavity of a tock. And it came to pass that. 
Leman was angry with me, and also with my father; and - 
also was Lemuel, for he hearkened unto the words of La- 
man. Wherefore, Laman and Lemuel did speak many 
hard words unto us, their younger brothers, and they did 
smite us.even with arod. - i 

And it eame to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold, 
an angel of the Lord came and stood before them, and he 
spake unto them, saying, why do ye smite your younger 
brother with a rod? Know ye not that the Lord hath cho- 
son- him to be a ruler over you, and this because of your 
iniquities? Behold ye shall go up to Jerusalem again, and 
the Lord will deliver Laban into yonr hands. And after 
the angel had spoken unto us, he departed. And after the 
angel had departed, Laman and Lemuel again began to 
murmur, saying, how is it possible that the Lord will de- 
liver Laban into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, 
and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then 
why not us? . 

-And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, sa 
ing, let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faith- 
ful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold, 
he. is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier 
than Laban. and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of 
thousands, Therefore, let us go up; let us be strong like °” 
unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the Red 
Sea, and they divided hither and thither, and our fathers 
came through, aut of captivity, on dry ground, and the 
armies of Pharaoh did follow, and were drowned in the 
waters of the Red Sea. Now behold, ye know that this is 
true; and ye also know that an angel hath spoken unto : 
you, wheceforecan ye doubt? Let us goup; the Lord is able 
to: deliver us,: even as our fathers, and to.destroy Laban, 
even.as:the Egyptians. . 

Now when J had spoken these words, they were yet 
wroth, and did still.continue to murmur; nevertheless they 
did follow me up until we came without the walls. of Je- 
rusalem. And it was by night; and I caused that they 
should hide themselves without the walls. And after they 
had hid themselves, J, Nephi, crept into the city and-went 
forth towards the house of Laban. And I was led by the . 

. 2e — 


ld FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


irit, not knowing beforehand the things which I should 
. Nevertheless I went.forth, and as Í came near unta 
the house of Laban, I beheld a man, and he had fallen to 
the earth before:me, for he was drunken with wine. And 


when I came to him, I found that it was Laban. And i- 
beheld his sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath there . 


of, and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the work- 


manship thereof was exceeding fine, andI saw that the; 


blade thereof was of the most precious steel. 
. And it came to pass that I was constrained by the spirit 

that I should kill È 

any time have I shed the blood of men, and I shrunk 

and would that I might not slay him. And the spirit said 


unto me again, behold the Lord hath delivered him into . 


thy hands; yea, and I also knew that he had sought ta 
take 


away mine own life; yea, and he would not hearken . 


unto the commandments of .the Lord; and he also had ta- 
ken away our property. 

And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me again, 
_ slay him, for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands, 
Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to bring forth his 
Tighteous purposes. It is better that one man should per- 
mi — that a nation should dwindle and perish in un- 

elief. 


And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these worda, I re 
membered the words of the Lord which he spake unto me ` 


in the wilderness, saying that inasmuch as thy seed shall 
keep my commandments, they shall prosper in the land 
of promise. Yea, and I also thought that they could 
not keep the commandments of the Lord accosding to 
the law of Moses, save they should have the law. And I 


also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of 


brass. And again—I knew that the Lord had delivered . 


Laban into my hands for this cause, that I might obtain the 
records accor ing to his commandments. Therefore I did 
obey the voice o 
the head, and I smote off his head with his own sward. | 
And after I had smitten off his head with his own 
sword, I took the garments of Laban and put them upon 
mine own body; yea, even every whit; and I did gird om 
his armour about my Joins. And after I had done this, 
I went forth unto the treasury of Laban. And as I went 
forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold I saw the ser- 
vant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury. And I 
commanded himin the voice of Laban, that he should 
with me into the treasury; and he supposed me to be his 
ester, Laban, for he beheld the garments, and also the 


aban: but I said in my heart, never at . 


the spirit, and took Laban by the hairof . 


-FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. "45 


sword girded about my loins. And he spake unto me 
concerming the elders of the Jews, he knowing that his 
master Laban had been out by night among them. And 
I spake unto him as if it had been Laban. And I also 
spake unto him that I should carry the engravings which 
‘were upon the plates of brass, to my elder brethren, 
who were without the walls. And I also bade him that 
he should follow me. And he, supposing thatI spake 
of the brethren of the church, and that I was truly 
that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow 
me. And he spake unto me many times concerning 
the elders of the Jews, as I went forth unto my brethren, 
who were without the walls. 

And it came to pass that when Laman saw me, he was 
exceedingly frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And 
‘they fled trom before my presence; for they supposed it was 
- aban, and that he had slain me, and had sought to take 
away their lives also, 

And it came to pass that I called after them, and they 
‘did hear me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my pres- 
ence. And it came to pass that when the servant of Joban 
beheid my brethren, ke began totremble, and was about to 
flee from before mé and return to the city of Jerusalem. 

And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and 
also having received much strength of the Lord, therefore I 
did seize upon the servant of Laban, and held him, that he 
should not flee. 

And it came to. pass that I spake with him, that if he 
would hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I 
live, even so that if he would hearken unto our words, we 
would spare his life. And I spake unto him, even with 
an oath, that he need not fear; that he should be a free 
man, like unto us, if he would go down in the wilderness 
with us. And I also spake unto him, saying, surely the Lord 
hath commanded us to do this thing, and shall we not be 
dilligent in keeping the commandments of the Lord?— 
Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the wilderness to my 
father, thou shalt have place with us. 

And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the 
words which I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the 
eérvant; and he promised that he would go down into the 
wilderness unto my father. And he also made an oath 
unto us, that he would tarry with us from that time forth. 
Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this 
cause, that the Jews might not know concerning our flight 
into the wilderness, lest they should pursue us and de- 
SOY Us. : 


16 FIRST BOOK ar NEPRI. 


And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an oath 
unto us, our fears did cease concerning him And it 
camo to pass that we took the plates of brass and the ser- 
vant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and 
journeyed unto the tent of our father — , 

And it came to pass that after we had came down into 
.the wilderness unto our father, behold he was filled with 
joy, and also my mother, Sariah, was exceeding glad, for she 
truly had mourned because of us; for she had supposed 
that we had perished in the wilderness; and she also had 
complained against my father, telling him that he was a 

‘visionary man; saying, behold thou hast led us forth from 
the land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and 
we perish in the wilderness. And after this manner of 
language had my mother complained — my father. 

And it had came to pass that my father spake unto her 
saying, I know that I ama visionary men; for if I hed 
not seen the things of God in a vision, I should not have 
known the goodness of God, but had tarried at Jerusalem 
and had perished with my brethren. But behold, I have 
obtained a land of promise, in the which things I do re- 
joice; yea, and I know that the Lord will deliver my sons 
out of the hands of Laban, and bring them down again 
unto us in the wilderness. And after this manner of lan- 
guage did my father Lehi comfort my mother Sariah, con- 
cerning us, while we journeyed in the wilderness up te 
the land of Jerusalem, to obtain the record of the Jews. 

And when we had returned to the tent of my father, be- 
hold their joy was full, and my mother was comforted; 
and she spake, saying, now I know of a surety that the 
Lord hath commanded my husband to flee into the wilder- 
ness ; yea, and I also know of a surety that the Lord hath 

rotected my sons and delived them out of the hands of 

aban, and gave them power whereby they could accom- 
plish the thing which the Lord hath commanded them. 
And after this manner of language did she speak. 

And it came to pae that they did rejoice exceedingly, 
and did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord 3 
and they gave thanks unto the God of Israel. And after 
they had given thanks unto the God of Isreel, my father 
Lehi took the records which were engraven upon the 
plates of brass, and he did search them from the beginning. 
And he beheld that they did contain the five books of 
Moses, which gave an account of the creation of the 
world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first pa- 
rents; and also a record of the Jews from the beginning, 
sven down tothe commencement of the reign of Zedeki 





‘PIEST BOOK OF NEPHI. 17 


‘kine of Jadah; and also the prophecies of the holy prophets, 
from the beginning, even down to the commencement of 
the reign of Zedekiah; and also many prophecies which 
have been spoken by the mouth of Jcremiah. 

And it came to pass that my farther Lehi diso found 
upon the plates of brass, a genealogy of his fathers; where- 

-fore hę knew that he was a decendant of Joseph; yea, even 
that Joseph who waa the son of Jacob, who was sold into 
Egypt, and who was preserved by the hand of the Lord, 
that he might preserve his father Jacob and all his house- 
hold from perishing with famine. And they were alsoled 
out of captivity and out of the land of È ypt, by that 
same God who had preserved them. And thas my father 
Lehi did discover the genealogy of his fathers. And La- 
ban also was a descendant of Joseph, wherefore he and 
his fathers had kept the records. 

And now when my father saw all these things, he was 
filled with the spirit, and began to prophesy concernin 

‘his seed ; that these plates of brasa should go forth unto a 
nations, kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his 
seed. Wherefore, he said that these plates of brass should 

“never perish; neither should they be dimmed any more b 
time. And he prophesied many things concerning his seed. 
- And it came to pass that thus far I and .my father had 
kept the commandments wherewith the Lord had com- 
manded us, And we hed obtained the record which the Lord 

had comimanded us, and searched them and found that the 

were desirable; yea, even of great worth unto us, insomuc 
that we could preserve the commandments of the Lord unto 
our children. ` Wherefore, it was wisdom inthe Lord that we 

‘should carry them with us, as we journeyed in the wilder- 
nese towards the land of promise. 


— Ga 


CHAPTER II. 


Anp now I, Nephi, do not give the genealogy of m 
fathers in this part of my record; neither at any time shall 
I give it after upon these plates which I am writing; for it 
is given in the record which has been noe by my father; 
wherefore I do not write itin this work. Foritsufficeth me 
to say, that we are a descendant of Joseph. Andit matter- 
eth not to me that I am particular to give a full account 
of all the things of my a for they cannot be written 


16 _ FIRST BOOK OF NEPRI. 


And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an onth 
unto us, our fears did cease concerning him. And it 
came to pass that we took tho paa of brass and the ser- 
. vant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and 

journeyed unto the tent of our father - 

And it came to pass that after we had came down into 
the wilderness unto our father, behold he was filled with 
joy, and algo my mother, Sariah, was exceeding glad, for she 
truly had mourned because of us; for she had supposed 
that we had perished in the wilderness; and she also had 

complained against my father, telling him that he was a 
visionary man; saying, behold thou hast led us forth fram 
the land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and 
we perish in the wilderness. And after this manner of 
language had my mother complained — my fathor. 

And it had came to pass that my father spake unto her 
saying, I know that I am a visionary man; for if I had 
not seen the things of God in a vision, Į should not have 
known the goodness of God, but had tarried at Jerusalem 
and had perished with my brethren. But behold, I have 
obtained a land of promise, in the which things I do re- 
joice; yea, and I know that the Lord will deliver my sons 
out of the hands of Laban, and bring them down again 
unto us in the wilderness. And after this manner of lan- 
guage did my father Lehi comfort my mother Sariah, con- 
cerning us, while we journeyed in the wilderness up te 
the land of Jerusalem, to obtain the record of the Jews. 

And when we had returned to the tent of my father, be- 
hold their joy was full, and my mother was comforted; 
and she spake, saying, now I know of a surety that the 
Lord hath commanded my hysband to flee into the wilder- 
ness ; yea, and I also know of a surety that the Lord hath 

rotected my sons and delived them out of the hands of 

aban, and gave them power whereby they could accom- 
plish the thing which the Lord hath commanded them. 
And after this manner of language did she speak. 

And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceedingly, 
and did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord ; 
and they gave thanks unto the God of Israel. And after 
they had given thanks unto the God of Israel, my father 
Lehi took the records which were engraven upon the 
plates of brass, and he did search them from the beginning. 
And he beheld that they did contain the five books of 
Moses, which gave an account of the creation of the 
world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first pa- 
Tents; and also a record of the Jews from the beginning, 
even down tothe commencement of thereign of Zedekiah, 


*PIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 17 


‘king of Judah ; and also the prophecies of the holy prophets, 
from the beginning, even down to the commencement of 
the reign’ of Zedekiah; and also many prophecies which 
have been spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah. 

And it came to pass that my farther Lehi diso found 
upon the plates of brass, a genealogy of his fathers; where- 
fore hę knew that he was a decendant of Joseph; yea, even 
that Joseph who was the son of Jacob, who was sold into 
Egypt, and who- -was preserved by the hand of the Lord, 
that he might preserve his father Jacob and all his house- 
hold from perishing with famine. And they were alsoled 
out of captivity and out of the land of Beypt, by that 
same God who had preserved them. And thus my father 
Lehi did discover the genealogy of his fathers. And La- 
ban also was a descendant of Joseph, wherefore he and 
his fathers had kept the records. 

And now when my father saw all these things, he was 
filled with the spirit, and began to prophesy concernin 
his seed ; that these plates of brasa should go forth unto a 
nations, kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his 
seed. Wherefore, he said that these plates of brass should 

* never perish ; neither should they be dimmed any more b 
time. And he prophesied many things concerning hisseed. 

And it came to pass that thus far I and .my father had 
kept the commandments wherewith the Lord had com- 
manded us. And wehad obtained the record which the Lord 
had commanded us, and searched them and found that the 
were desirable; yea, even of great worth unto us, insomuc 
that we could preserve the commandments of the Lord unto 
ourchildren. Wherefore, it was wisdom inthe Lord that we 
should carry them with us, as we journeyed in the wilder- 
ness towards the land of promise. 


ao 
CHAPTER II. 


Anp now I, Nephi, do not give the genealogy of m 
fathers in this part of my record; neither at any time shall 
I give it after upon these plates which I am writing; for it 
is given in the record which has been kept by my father; 
wherefore I do not write itin this work. Foritsufficeth me 
to say, that we are a descendant of Joseph. And it matter- 
eth not to me that I am particular to give a full account 
of all the things of my father, for they cannot be written 

2 


48 NIRST BOOK OP NERHI. 


upon these plates, for I desire the room that I- may write 
‘of the things of God. For the fullness of mine intent is, 
that I may persuade men to come unto the Ged of Abra- 
ham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, and be 
saved. Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the 
world, I do not write, but the things which are. pleasing 
unto God and unto those who are not of the world. Where- 
fore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they 
shallnot occupy these plates with things which are not of 
worth unto the children of men. 

And now I would that ye might know, that after my 
father Lehi had made an end of prophesying concerning 
his seed, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto bim 

ain, saying, that it was not meet for him, Lehi, that he 
should take his family into the wilderness alone; but that 
his sons should take daughters to wife, that they might 
raise up seed unto the Lordin the Landof promise. 

And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that 
I, Nephi, and my brethren, should again return unto the 
land of Jerusalem, and bring down Ishmael and his family 
into the wilderness. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did again, with my 
brethren, go forth into the wilderness to go up to Jerusalem. 
And it came to pass that we went up unto the house of 
Ishmael, and we did gain favour in the sight of Ishmael, 
insomuch that we did speak unto him the words of the Lord. 

And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the heart 
of Ishmael, and also his household, insomuch that they 
took their journey with us down into the wilderness, te 
the tent of our father. And it came to pass that as we 
journeyed inthe wilderness, behold, Laman and Lemuel, 
and two of the daughters of Ishmael, and the two song 
of Ishmeel, and their families, did rebel against us; yea, 
against I, Nephi, and Sam, and their father Ishmael, and 
his wife, and his three other daughters. 

And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they were 
desirous to return unto the land of Jerusalem. And now 
I, Nephi, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, 
thereiore I spake unto them, saying; yea, even unto La- 
man and unto Lemuel, behold ye are mine elder brethern; 
and how is it that ye are so hard in your hearts, and so 
blind in your minds, that ye have need that I, your 
younger brother, should speak unto you, yea, and set an 
example for you? How is it that ye have net hearkened 
unto the word of the Lord? How is it that ye have for- 
gotten that ye have seen an apgle of the Lord? Yea, 
and how is it that ye have fofgotten what groat things 


«fr 


PEE BOOK OF NEPHI. B 


the Lord hath dene for us, in delivering us out of the hands 
of Laban, and also that we should obtain the record }—~ 
Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten that the Lord 
is able to do all things, according to’ his will, for the chil- 
dren of men, if it so be that they exercise faith in him: 
wherefore, let us be faithful:'to him. And if it so be that 
we are faithful to him, we shall obtain the land of prom- 
ise; and ye shall -know at some future period, that the 
word of the Lord shall be fulfilled, concerning the destruc- 
tion of Jerusalem; for all things which the Lord hath 
spoken concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, must be 
fulfilled. For behold, the spirit of the Lord ceaseth soon 
to strive with them; for behold, they have rejected the 
prophets, and Jeremiah have they cast into prison. 

they have sought to take away the life of my father inso- 
much that they have driven him out of the land,’ 

Now behold, I say unto you, that if ye will return unto 
Jerusalem, ye shall also perish with them. And now, if 
ye have choice, go up to the land, and remember the 
words which I speak unto you, that if ye go, ye will also 

erish; for thus the spirit of the Lord constraineth me that 

should speak. | 

And it came to pass that when I,Nephi, had spoken 
these.words unto my brethren, they were angry with me. 
And it came to pass that they did lay their hands 
upon me—for behold, they were exceeding wroth—and 
they did bind me with cords, for they sought to take away 
my life, that they might leave me in the wilderness, to be 
devoured by wild beasts. 

But it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord, sayingO 
Lord, according to my faith which isin theo, wilt thou deliver 
me from the hands of my brethren ; yea even give me strength 
that I may burst these bands with which I am bound. 

And it came to pass that when I had said these words, 
behold, the bands were loosed from off my hands and 
feet, and I stood before my brethren, and I spake unto 
them again. And it came to pasa that they were angry 
with me again, and sought to lay hands upon me; but be- 
hold, one.of the daughters of Ishmael, yea, and also her 
mother, and one of the sons of Ishmael, did plead with 
my brethren, insomuch that they did soften their hearts; 
aad they did cease striving to take away mg life. _ 

And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, because 
of their wickedness, insomuch that they did bow down 
before me, and did plead with me, that I would forgive 
them of the thing that they had done against me. 

And it came to pags thet I did frankly forgive them 





20 FIRST BOOK oF ÑRPHI. 


all that they had done, and I did exhort them that--they 
would pray unto the Lord their God, for forgiveness. 
And it came to pass that they did so. And after they had 
done praying unto the Lord, we did again travel on oer 
journey toward the tent of our father. , 

And it came to pass that we did come down unto the 
tent of our father. And after I and my brethren, and all 
the house of Ishmael, had come down unto the tent of my 
father, they did give thanks unto the Lord their God: and 
they did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto him. ` 

And it came to pass that we had gathered together all 
manner of seeds of every kind; both of grain of every kind, 
and also of the seeds of fruit of every kind. And it came 
to pass that while my father tarried in the wilderness, he 
spake unto us, saying, behold, I have dreamed a dream; 
or, in other words, I have seena vision. And behold, be- 
cause of the thing which I have seen, I have reason to re- 
joice in the Lord because of Nephi, and also of Sam; for 

have reason to suppose that they, and also many. of their 
seed, will be saved. But behold, Laman and Lemuel, I 
fear exceedingly because of you; for behold, me thought 
I saw in my dream, a dark and dreary wilderness. 

And it came to pass that I saw a man, and he was dress- 
ed in a white robe; and he came and stood before me. And 
it came to pass that he spake unto me, and bade me follow 
him. And it came to pass that as I followed him, I beheld 
myself that I was in a dark and dreary waste. And after 
I had travelled for the space of many hours in darkness, I 
began to pray unto the Lord that he would have mercy on 
me, according to the multitude of his tender mercies. 

And it came to pass that after I had prayed unto the Lord, 
I beheld a large and spacious field. And it came to pass 
that I beheld a tree, whose fruit was desirable, to makè 
one happy. 

And it came to pass that I did go forth, and partake of 
the fruit thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, 
above all that I ever before tasted. Yea, and I beheld that 
the fruit thereof was white, to'exceed all the whiteness 
that I had ever seen. And as I partook of the fruit thereof, 
it filled my soul with exceeding great joys wherefore I be- 

n to be desirous that my family should partake of it alsoz 

or I knew that it was desirable above all othor fruit. And 
as I cast my eyes round about, that perhaps I might dis- 
cover my family also, I beheld a river of water; and it ran 
along, and it was near the tree of which I was partaking 
the fruit. And I looked to behold from whence it came; 
and I saw the head thereof a little way off; and at the head 


- PIRST BOOK OF NEFNI. #1 
“thereof, I beheld your mother Sariah, and Sam, and Ne- 
phi; and they as if they knew not whither they should 


O. 
$ And it came to pass that I beckoned unto them; and I 
.also did say unto them, with a loud voice, that they should 

come unto me, and partake of the fruit, which was desira- 
ble above all other fruit. 

And it came to pass that they did come unto me, and 

rtake of the froit also. And it came to pass that I was 

esirous that Leman and Lemuel should come and partake 
of the fruit also; wherefore, I cast mine eyes towards the 
head of the river, that perhaps I might seo them. - 

And it came to pas that I saw them, but they would not 
‘come unto me, and partake of the fruit. And I beheld a 
sod of iron; and it extended along the bank of the river, 
and led to the tree by which I stood. And I also beheld 
a straight and.narrow path, ‘which came along by the rod 
of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it also led 
by the head ofthe fountain, unto a large and spacious field, 
as if it had been a world; and I saw numberless concours- 

es of people; many of whom were pressing forward, that 
they might obtain the path which led unto the tree by 
which I stood. 

And it came to pass that they did come forth, and com- 
mence in the path which led to the tree. And it came to 
pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an ex- 
ceeding great mist of darkness, insomuch that they who 
had commenced in the pai, did lose their way, that they 
wandered off and were lost. 

And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing for 
ward: and. they came forth, and caught hold of the end of 
the rod of iron; and they did press forward through the 
‘mist of darkness, clinging to tho rod of iron, even until 
they did come forth and partake of the fruit of the tree. — 
And after they had partaken of the fruit of the tree, they 
did cast their eyes about as if they were ashamed. And 
I also cast my eyes round about, and beheld, on the other 
side of the river of water, a great and spacious building: 
and it stood,as it were in the air, high above the earth; 
and it was filled with people, both old and young, both male 
and female; and their manner of dress was.excecding fine; 
and they were in the attitude of mocking and pointing 
their fingers towards those who had come at, and were 

artaking of the fruit. And after they had tasted of the 

it, they were ashamed, because of those that were scof- 
fing at them; and they fell away into forbidden paths and 
wets. lout. 


2 . FIRST BOOK OF NEFHI. 


And now I, Nephi, do not speak all the words of my 
father. But to be short in writing, behold, he saw othor 
multitudes pressing forward; and they came and caught 
hold of the end of the rod ofiron; and they did press their 
way forward, continually ae fast to the rod of iron, 
until they came forth and fell down and partook of the 
fruit of the tree. And he also saw other multitudes, feel- 
ing their way towards that great and spacious building. 

And it came to pass that many were drowned in the 
depths of the fountain; aud many were lost from his view, 
wandering in strange roads. And great was the multitude 
that did enter into that strange building. And after the 
did enter into that building, they did point the finger o 
scorn et me, and those that wera partaking of the fruit al- 
80: but we heeded them not. These are the words of my 
father: For as many as heeded them, had fallen away. 
an Laman and Lemuel partook not of the fruit, said my 
ather. 

And it came to pass after my father had spoken all the 
words of his dream or vision, which were many, he said 
unto us, because of these things which he saw in a vision, 
he exceedingly feared for Laman and Lemuel; yea, he 
feared lest they should be cast off from the presence of the 
Lord; and he did exhort them then with all the feeling of 
a tender parent, that they would hearken to his worda, 
that, perhaps the Lord would be merciful to them, and not 
cast them off; yea, my father did preach unto them. 

And after he had preached unto them, and also prophe- 
sied unto them of many things, he bade them to keep the 
comandments of the Lord; and he did cease speaking unto 
them. And all these things did my father see, and hear, 
and speak, as he dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel; 
and also a great many more things, which cannot be writ- 
ten upon these plates. And now, as I have spoken con- 
cerning these plates, behold, they are not the plates upon 
which I make a full aceount of the history of my peoplo; 
for the plates upon which I make a full account of my peo- 
plo, I have given the name of Nephi; wherefore, they are 
called the plates of Nephi, after mine own name; and 
these plates also, are called the plates of Nephi. . 

Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of tho 
Lord, that I should make these plates, for the special pur- 

so that there should be an account engraven of the min- 
istry of my people. Upon the other plates should be 
engraven an account of the reign of the kings, and the 
wars and contentions of my people; wherefore, these plates 
are for the more part of the ministry ; and the other plates 


ERST BOOK OF MRFEI. 23 


are for the mote part of the reign of the kings, and the 
wars and contentions of my people. Wherefore, the Lord 
hath commanded me to make these plates, for a wise pur- 
in him; which purpose I know not. But the 
noweth all things from the beginning; wherefore, he 
prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the 
children of men; for behold he hath all power unto the 
fulfilling of all his words. And thus itis. Amen. 


"mn mee 


- CHAPTER III. 


-AnD now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon 
these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and minis- 
try ; wherefore, to proceed with mine account, I must speak 
somewhat of the things of my father, and aleo of my 
brethren. 

For behold, it came to pass after my father had made an 
end of speaking the words of his dream, and also of ex- 
horting them to all diligence, he spake unto them con- 
cerning the Jews, that after they should be destroyed, even 
that great city Jerusalem, and many be carried away cap- 
tive into Babylon, according to the own due time of the 
Lord, they should return again; yea, even be brought back 
out of captivity: and after they should be brought back 
out of captivity, they should possess again the land of their 
inheritance. 

Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my 
father left Jerusalem, 9 prophet would the Lord God raise 
up among the Jews: even a Messiah; on, in other words, a 
Savior of the world. And he also spake concerning the 
prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, 
concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this - 
Redeemer of the world. Wherefore, all mankind were in 
a lost and in a fallen state, and evar would'be, save they 
should rely on this Redeemer. . : 

And he spake also, concerning a prophet, who should 
gome before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord; 
yea, even he should go forth and ery in the wilderness, 
prepat ye the way of the Lord, and make his — straight; 

or there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and 
he is mightier than I, whose shoe’s latchet I am not wor- 
thy to unmloose. And mueh spake my father coneerning 
this thing. | 

And my father ssid he should baptize in Bethabary, be- 


th. FIRST BOOK OF NEPML: 


yond Jordan; and he also said he should baptize with watery: 
even that he should: baptize the Messiah with water. And. 
after he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should 
behold and bear record, that he had baptized the Lamb of: 
God, who should take away the sins of the world. : 

And it came to pass after my father had spoken these 
words, he spake unto my brethren concerning. the gospel 
which should be preached among the Jews, and also con-. 
cerning the dwindling of the Jews in unbelief. And after 
they had slain the Messiah who should come, and afterhe 
had been slain, he should rise from the dead, and should, 
make himself manifest by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles. 

Yea, even my father spske much concerning the Gen- 
tiles, and also concerning the house of Israel, that they 
should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose branch- 
os should be broken off, and should be scattered upon all 
the face of the earth. Wherefore, he said it must needs - 
be that we should be led with one accord, into the land of 
promise unto the fulfilling of the word of the Lord, that. 
we should be scattered upon all the face of the earth. And 
after the house of Israel should be scattered, they should - 
be gathered together again; or, in fine, after the Gentiles 
had received the fullness of the gospel, the natural branch- 
es of the olive tree, or the remnants of the house of Israel, : 
should be grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true 
Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer. And after this 
manner of language did my father prophesy and speak un- 
to my brethren;-and also many more things, which I do 
not write in this book; for I have written as many of them 
as were expedient for me in mine other book. And all 
these things, of which I have, spoken; were done as. my: 
father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel. — 

And it came to pase after I, Nephi, having heard all the 
words of my father, concerning the things which he saw 
in a vision; and also the things which spake by the 
power of the Holy Ghost; which power he received by 
faith on the Son of God; and the Son: of God was the Mes- Ô 
siah, who should come. I, Nephi, was desirous also, that-.2 
I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the 
power of the Holy Ghost, which is the gift of God untoall . 
those who diligently seek him, as well in times of old ag - 
in the time that he should manifest himself unto the chil- 
dren of men: ior he is the same yesterday, to-day, and: for- 
ever; and the way is prepared for all men from the founda- 
tion of the world, if it so be that they repent and.come 
unto him; for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and 
the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the 





FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. $5 


power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times asin times 
of old; and as well in times of old asin times to come; 
wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round, 
Therefore, remember, O man, for all thy doings, thou shalt 
be brought into judgment. Wherefore, if ye have sought 
to do wickedly in the days of your probation, then ye are 
found unclean before the judgment seat of God; and no 
unclean thing can dwell with God: wherefore, ye must be 
cast off forever. And the Holy Ghost giveth authority 
thet I should speak these things and deny them not. 

For it came to pass after Í had desired to know the 
things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord 
was able to make them known unto me, as 1 sat ponderin 
in mine heart, I was caught away in the Spirit of the Lord, 
yea, into an exceeding high mountain, which I never had 
before seen, and upon which I never had before sat my 
foot. And the spirit said unto me, behold, what desirest 
thou? And I said, I desire to behold the things which my 
father saw.. And the spirit said unto me, believest thou 
that thy father saw the tree of which he hath spoken? 
And I said yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words 
of my father. 

And when I had spoken these words, the spirit cried 
with a loud voice, saying, hosanna to the Lord, the most 
high God; for he is God over all the earth, yea, even above 
all: And blessed art thou, Nephi, because thou believest 
in the Son of the most high God; wherefore, thou shalt 
behold the things which thou hast desired. And behold, 
this thing shall be given unto thee fora sign, that after 
thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which thy 
father tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out 
of heaven; and him shall ye witness; and after ye have 
Ai him, ye shall bear record that it is the Son of 


And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me look! 
and I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the 
tree which my father had seen; and the beauty thereof 
was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all beauty; and the 
whiteness thereof did exceed the whiteness of the driven 
snow. 

And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto 
the epirit, I behold, thou hast shewn unto me the tree which 
is precious above all. And he said unto me, what desirest 
thou? And I said unto him, to know the interpretation 
thereof: for I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I be- 
held that he was in the form ol a man; yet, nevertheless, 


b.i FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


I knew that it was the spirit af the Lord: and he spake un- 
to me aga man speaketh with another. | 

And it came to pass that he said unto me, look! and [I 
looked as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he 
had gone from before my presence. : 

And it came to pass thet I looked and beheld the great 
aity of Jerusalem, and also other cities.: And I beheld the 
city of Nazareth: and im the city of Nazareth I beheld a 
virgin, and she was exceedingly fair and white. 

And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; apd, 
an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto 
me, Nephi, what beholdest thou? And I said unto him, 
a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins. 
And he said unto me, knowest thou the condescension of 
God? And I said unto him, I know that he loveth his 
children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all 
things. And he said unto me, behold, the virgin whom 
thou seest, is the mother of the Son of God, after the man-. 
ner of the flesh. l 

And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried 
away in the spirit; and after she had been carried away in 
the spirit for the space of a time, the angel spake unto me,, 
saying, look! And I looked and beheld the virgin again, 
_ bearing a child in her arms. And the angel said unto me, 

behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal 
Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy 
father saw? And I answered him, saying, yea, it is the 
love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of . 
the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable. 
above allthings. And he spake unto me, saying, yea, and 
the most joyous to the soul. And after he had said these 
words, he said unto me, look! And I looked, and I beheld 
the Son of God going forth among the children of men:: 
and I saw many fall fae at his feet and worship him,. 

And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron 
which my father had seen, was the word of God, which. 
led to the fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life: 
which waters are a representation of the love of God; and- 
I also beheld that the tree of life was a representation of 
the love of God. And the angel said unto me again, look . 
and behold the condescension of God! And I looked and 
heheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my father had 
poon and I also beheld the prophet who should prepare 
the way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and 
was baptized of him; and after he was baptized, I beheld 
the heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of 
heaven and abode upon him in the form of a dove. And 


enean — —— 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 27 


T beheld that he went forth ministering unto th people, 
in power and great glory; andthe multitudes were gathered 
together to hear him: and I beheld that they cast him out 
from among them. And I also beheld twelve others fol- 
lowing him. i 

And it came to pass that they wete carried away in the 
spirit, from before my face, and I saw them not. And it 
came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, 
look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again, 
and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; 
and they did minister unto them. And he spake unto me 
again, saying, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Lamb 
of God going forth among the children of men. And I be- 
held multitudes of people who were sick, and who were 
afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils, and 
unclean spirits, and the angel spake, and shewed all these 
things unto me. And they were healed by the power of 
the Lamb of. God, and the devils and the’ unclean spirits 
were cast out. 

And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, 
saying, look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, 
that he was taken by the péople; yea, the Son of the ever- 
lasting God was judged of the world; and I saw and bear 
record, And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the 
cross, and slain for the sins of the world. And after he 
was slain, I saw the multitudes of the earth, that they were 

thered together to fight against the apostles of the Lamb; 
for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord. 
And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and 
I beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, 
like unto the building which my father saw! And the 
angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying, behold the 
world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold, the house of 
Israel hath gathered together, to fight against the twelve 

apostles of the Lamb. 

And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the 

‘eat and spacious building was the pride of the world; 
an@ it fell; and the fall thereof was exceeding great. And 
the angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying, thus 
shall be the destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues 
and people, that shall fight against the twelve apostles of 
the Lamb. , 

And it came to pass that the angel said unto me, look, 
and bebold thy seed, and also the sced of thy brethren! 
And I looked and beheld the land of promise; and I beheld 
multitudes of people, yea, even as it were in number, as 
many as the sand of the sea. 


28 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


And R came to pass that I beheld multitudes gathered. 
together to battle, one against the other; and I beheld 
wars, and rumors of wars, and great slaughters with the 
sword among my people. l 

And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass 
away, after the manner of wars and contentions in the 
land; and I beheld many cities, yea, even that I did not 
number them. 

And it came to pass that Isaw a mist of darkness on the face 
of the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and I heard 
thunderings, and earthquakes, and all manner of tumultuous 
noises; and I saw the earth and the rocks that they rent; 
and I saw mountains tumbling into pieces; and I saw the 
plains of the earth, that they were broken up; and I saw 
many cities, that they were sunk; and I saw many that 
they were burned with fire; and I saw many that did tum- 
ble to the earth, because of the quaking thereof. 

And it came to pass after I saw these things, I saw the 
vapor of darkness, that it passed from off the face of the 
earth; and behold, I saw multitudes who had fallen, be- 


cause of the great and terrible ig. ode of the Lord. And 
I saw the heavens open, and the Lamb of God descendin 
out of heaven; and he came down and shewed himself 
unto them. And I also saw and bear record that the Hol 
Ghost fell upon twelve others, and they were ordained of 
God, and chosen. 

And the angel spake unto me, saying, behold the twelve 
disciples of the Lamb, who are chosen to minister unto thy 
seed. And he said unto me, thou remembereth the twelve 
apostles of the Lamb? Behold they are they who shall 
judge the twelve tribes of Israel: wherefore, the twelve 
ministers of thy seed shall be judged of them; for ye are 
of the house of Israel: and these twelve ministers whom 
thou beholdest, shall judge thy seed. And behold the 
are righteous forever: for because of their faith inthe Lam 
of God, their garments are made white in his blood. 

‘And the angel said unto me, look! And I looked and 
beheld three generations pass away in righteousness; and 
their garments were white, even like unto the Lamb of 
God. And the angel said unto me, these are made white 
in the blood of the Lamb, because of their faith in him. 
And I, Nephi, also saw many of the fourth generation, 
who passed away in righteousness. 

And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the 
earth gathered together. And the angel said unto me, be- 
hold thy seed, aid also the seed of thy brethren! And it 
came to pass that I looked and beheld the people of my 





FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 29 


sgod gathered together in multitudes against the seed of 
my brethren; and they were gathered together to battle. 

And the angel spake unto me, saying, behold the foun- 
tain of filthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the 
fiver of which he spake; and the depths thereof are the 
depths of hell: and the mists of darkness are the tempta- 
tions of the devil, which blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth 
the hearts of the children of men, and leadeth them awa 
into broad roads, that they may perish, and are lost; an 
the large and spacious building which thy father saw, is 
vain imaginations and the pride of the children of men. 
And a great and a terrible gulf dividéth them; yea, even 
the word of the justice of the eternal God, and the Messiah 
who is the Lamb of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth 
record, from the beginning of the’ world until this time, 
and from this time henceforth and forever, And while the 
angel spake these words, I beheld and sdw that the seed 
of my brethren did contend against my seed, according to 
the word of the angel; and because of the pride of my seed, 
and the temptations of the devil, I beheld that the seed of 
my brethren did overpower the people of my seed. 

And it came to pass that I beheld and saw the people of 
the seed of my brethren, that they had overcome my seed; 
and they went forth in multitudes upon the face of the 
land. And I saw them gathered together in multitudes; 
and I saw wars and rumors of wars among them; and in 
wars, and ramors of wars, I saw many generations pass 
away. And the angel said unto me, behold, these shall 
dwindle in unbelief. 

And it came to pass,that I beheld after they had dwin- 
died in unbelief, they became a dark and loathsome, and 
a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abomina- 
tions. . 

And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me say- 
ing, look! And [ looked and beheld many nations and 
kingdoms. And the angel said unto me, what beholdest 
thou? And I said I behold many nations and kingdoms. 
And he said unto me, these are the nations and kingdoms 
of the Gentiles. ` 

And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of the 
Gentiles the foundation of a great church. And the angel 
said unto me, behold the foundation of a church, which is 
most abominable above all other churches, which slayeth 
the saints of God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth 
them down, and yoketh them with a yoke of iron, and 
bringeth them ‘down into ae a | 


30 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHL 


And it came to pass that I beheld this great and abemi- 
nable church; and I saw the devil that he was the founda- 
tion of it. And I also saw gold, and silver, and silks, and 
scarlets, and fine twined linen, and all manner of precious 
clothing; and I saw many harlots. And the angel spake 
unto me, saying, behold the gald, and the silver, and the 
silks, and the scarlets, and the fine twined linen, and the 
precious clothing, and the harlots, are the desires of this 
great and abominable church; and also for the praise of 
the world, do they destroy the saints of God, and bring them 
down into captivity. 3 ' 

And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many wa- 
ters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my 
brethren. And it came to pass that the angel-said unto 
me, behold the wrath of God is upon the seed of thy breth- 
ren! And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, 
who was sepagfated from the seed of ‘my brethren by the 
many waters; and I beheld the spirit of God, that it came 
down and wrdught upon the man; and he went forth upon 
the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who 
were in the promised land. ; 

And it came to pass that I beheld the spirit of God, that 
it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out 
of captivity, upon the many waters. 
~. And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of 
the Gentiles, upon the land of promise; and I beheld the 
wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; 
and they were scattered before the Gentiles, and wero 
smitten. And I beheld the spirit of the Lord, that it was ` 
upon the Gentiles; and they did prosper, and obtain the 
land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were 
white, and exceeding fair and beautiful, like unto my peo- 
ple, before they were slain. 

And it came to pase that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gen- 
tiles who had gone forth out of captivity, did humble them- 
selves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with 
them; and I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gath- 
ered together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to 
battle against them; and I beheld that the power of God 
was with them; and also that the wrath of God was upon 
all those that were gathered together against them to battle. 
And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of 
captivity, were delivered by the power of God, out of the 
hands of all other nations. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, heheld that they did 
prosper in the land; and I beheld a book, and it wag car- 
ried forth among them. And the angel said unto me, know- 





—— ee ee Ee ee ee Ee a 0M 


PIRST. BOOK OF NEPHI 32 


est thou the meaning of the book? And I said unto him, 
I know not. And he said, behold, it proceedeth out of the 
mouth of a Jew; and I, Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto 
me, the book that thou beholdest, is a record of the Jews, 
which contains the covenants of the Lord which he hath 
made unto the house of Israel; and it also containeth many 
of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and it is a record 
like unto the engravings which are upon the plates of 
brass, save there are not so many; nevertheless, they con- 
tain the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto 
the house of Israel; wherefore, they are of great worth 
unto the Gentiles, 

And the angel of the Lord said unto me, thou hast be- 
held that the book proceeded forth from the mouth of a 
Jew; and when it proceeded forth from the mouth of aJew, 
it contained the plainness of the gospel of the Lord, of 
whom the twelve apostles bear record aland they bear re- 
cord according to the truth which is ne Lamb of God: 
wherefore, these things go forth from the Jews in purity, 
unto the Gentiles, according to the truth which is in God: 
and after they go forth by the hand of the twelve apostles 
of the Lamb, from the Jews unto the Gentiles, thou seest 
the foundatian of a great and abominable church, which 
is most abominable above all other churches; for behold, 
they have taken away from the gospel of the Lamb, many 
parts which are plain and mast precious; and also many 
covenants of the Lord have they taken away; and all this 
have they done, that they might pervert the right ways of 
the Lord; that they might blind the eyes and harden the 
hearts of the children of men: wherefore, thou seest that 
after the book hath gone forth through the hands of the 
great and abominable church, that there are many plain 
and precious things taken away from the book, which is 
the book of the Lamb of God; and after those plain and 
precious things were taken away, it goeth forth unto all 
the nations of the Gentiles: and after it goeth foxth unto 
all the nations of the Gentiles, yea, even across the many 
waters which thou hast seen with the Gentiles which have 
gone forth out of captivity: thou seest because of the man 
plain and precious things which have been taken out o 
the book, which were plain unto the understanding of the 
children of men, according to the plainness which is in the 
Lamb of God; because of these things which are taken 
away out of the gospel of the Lamb, an exceeding great 
many do stumble, yea, insomuch that satan hath great 
pow er over them; nevertheless thou beholdest that the Gen- 
tiles who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been 





32 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


lifted up by the power of God above all other nations upon 
the face of the land, which is choice above all other lands, 
which is the land that the Lord God hath-covenanted with 
thy father, that his seed should have, for the land of their 
inheritance, will not utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed. 
which are among thy brethren; neither will he suffer-that , 
the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren, neither 
will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles shall forever re- 
main in that awful state of blindness, which thou behold- 
est they are in, because of the plain and most precious 
— of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back. 
y that abominable church, whose formation thou hast 
seen. Wherefore, saith the Lamb of God, I will be mer- 
ciful unto the Gentiles, unto the visiting of the remnant 
of the house of Israel in great judgment. © 

And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake 
unto me, eaying, pho, saith the Lamb of God, after I 
have visited the rnant of the house of Israel, and this 
remnant of whom I speak, is the seed of thy father; where- 
fore, after I Have visited them in. judgment, and smitten 
them by the hand-of the Gentiles; and after the Gentiles. 
do stumble exceedingly, because of the most plain and 

recious parts of the gospel of the Lamb which has been 

ept back, by that abominable church, which .is the moth» 
er of harlots, saith the Lamb, I will be merciful unto the. 
Gentiles in that day, insomuch that I will bring forth un- 
to them in mine own power, much of my gospel, which 
shall be plain and precious, saith the Lamb; for behold, 
saith the Lamb, I will manifest myself unto thy seed, that 
they shall write many things which I shall minister. unto 
them, which shall be plain and precious; and after thy 
seed shall be destroyed and dwindle in unbelief, and also 
the seed of thy brethren; behold, these things shall be 
hid up, to come forth unto the Gentiles, by-the gift and. 
power of the Lamb; and in them shall be written my 
gospel,.saith the Lamb, and my rock and my salvation; 
and blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion 
at that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of 
the Holy Ghost; and if they endure unto the end, they 
shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the 
everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall pub- 
lish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon 
the mountains shall they be. 

And it came to pass that I beheld the remnant of the seed 
of my brethren, and also the book of the Lamb of God, 
which had proceeded forth from the mouth of the Jew, that 
'+ came forth from the Gentiles, unto the remnant of the 








FIRST BOOK OF NEPRI. 38 


seed of my brethren; and afterit had come forth unto them, 
I beheld other books, which came forth by the power of 
the Lamb, from the Gentiles unto them, anto the convine- 
ing of the Gentiles, and the remnant of the seed of m 
brethren, and also the Jews, who were scattered upon all 
thé face of the earth, that the records of the prophets and 
of the twelve apostles of the Lomb, are true. 

And the angel spake unto me, saying, these last records 
which thou hast seon among the Gentiles, shall establish 
the truth of the first, which are of the twelve apostles of 
the Lamb, and shall make known the plain and precious 
things which have been taken away from them; and shall 
make known fo all kindreds, tongues and people, that the 
Lamb of God is the Son of the eternal Father, and the 
Savior of the world; and that all men must come unto him 
or they cannot be saved; and they must come according to 
the words which shall be established by the mouth of the 
Lamb: and the words of the Lamb shall be made known 
in the records of thy seed, as well as inthe records of the 
twelve apostles of the Lamb; wherefore, they both shall be 
established in one; for there is one God and one Shepherd 
over all the earth; and the time cometh that he shall 
manifest himself. unto all nations, both unto the Jews, and 
also unto the Gentiles; and after he has manifested himself 
unto the Jews, and also unto the Gentiles; then he 
shail manifest himself unto the Gentiles, and also unto 
Jews, and the last’ shall be first, and the first shall be 
ast. 

And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall heark- 
en unto the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest 
himself unto them in word, and also in power, in very 
deed, unto the taking away of their stumbling blocks, and 
harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they 

shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they 
shall be numbered among the house of Israel; and they 
shall be a blessed people upon the promised land forever; 
they shall be no more brought down into captivity; and the 
house of Israel shall no more be confounded; and that 
great pit which hath been digged for them, by that great 
and abominable church, which was founded by the devil 
and his children, that he might lead away the souls of 
men down to hell; yea, that great: pit which hath been 
digged for the destruction of men, shall be filled by those 
who digged it, unto their utter destruction, saith the Lamb 
of God; not the destruction of the soul, save it be the cast- 
ing of it into that hell which hath no end; for behold, this 
is according to the captivity of the devil, and also accord- 


M FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


ing to the justice of God, upon all those who will work 
wickedness and abomination before him. 

And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, he 
saying, thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent, it shall 
be wall with them; and thou also knowest concerning 
the covenants of the Lord unto the house of Israel; 
and thou aleo hast heard, that whoso repenteth not, 
must perish; therefore, wo, be unto the Gentiles, if it 
so be that they harden their hearts against the Lamb of 
God; forthe time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I 
will work a great and marvelous work among the children 
of men; a work which shall be everlasting, either on the 
one hand or on the other; either to the convincing of them 
unto peace and life oternal, or unto the deliverance of them 
to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their 
minds, unto their being brought down into captivity and 
also unto destruction, both temporally and spiritually, ac- 
cording to the oaptivity of the devil, of which I have 
spoken. 

And it came to pass that when the angel had. spoken 
these words, he said unto me, remember thou the coven- 
ants of the Father unto the house of Israel? I said unto 
him, yea. And it came to pass that he said unto me, look 
and behold that great and abominable church, which is the 
mother of abominations, whose foundation is the devil.. 
And he said unto me behold, there are, save two churches 
only: the one isthe church of the Lamb of God, and the 
other is the church of the devil; wherefore, whoso belong- 
eth not tothe church of the Lamb of God, belongeth to that 
great church, which isthe mother of abomination; and she 
1s the whore of all the earth. : 

And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore 
of all the earth, and she sat upon many waters; and she 
had dominion over all the earth, among all nations, kinds 
reds, tongues and people, - 

And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the 
Lamb of God, and its numbers were few, because of the 
wickedness and abominations of the whore who sat upon 
many waters; nevertheless, I beheld thatthe church of 
the Lamb, who were the saints of God, were also upon 
all the face of the earth; and their dominions upon the 
face of the earth were small, because of the wickedness 
of the great whore whom I saw. 

And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother 
of abominations did gather together multitudes upon 
the face of all the earth, among all the nations of the Gen- 
tiles, to fight ageinst the Lamb of God. ' 


—— Ee 


FIRST BOQK OF NERETI, R 


‘And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of 
the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the 
church.of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of 
the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the 
earth; and they were armed with righteougness and with 
the power of God in great glory. 

And it came to pass that 4 beheld that the wrath of God 
was poured out upon the great and abominable church, 
insomuch that there were wars and rumors of wars among 
all the nations and kindreds of the earth, and as there be- 
gan to be wars and rumors of ware among all the nations 
which belonged, to the mother of abominations, the angel 

ake unto me, saying, behold, the wrath of God is upon 
the mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these 
things; and when the day cometh that the wrath of God is 
poured out upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and 
abominable church of all the earth, whose foundation is 
the devil, then at that day, the work of the Farther shall 
commence, in — the way for the fulfilling of his 
covenants, which he hath made to his people, who are of 
the house of Israel. 

And it came to pasa that the angel spake unto me, say- 
ing, look! And I looked and beheld a man, and he was 
dressed in a whité' robe; and the angel said unto me, be- 
hold one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb! Behold, 
he shall see and write the remainder of these things; yea, 
and also many things which have been: and he shall also 
write concerning the end of the world; wherefore, the 
things which he shall write are just and true; and be- 
hold, they are written in the book which thou beheld 
proceeding out of the mouth of the Jew; and at the time 
they preceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, or, at the 
time the book proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, the 
things which were written, were plain and pure, and most 
precious, and easy to the understanding of all men. And 
behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall 
write, are many things which thou hast seen; and be- 
hold, the remainder shalt thou see; butthe things which 
though shalt see hereafter, thou shalt not write; for the 
Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God 
that he should write them. And also others who have 

been, to them hath he shown all things, and they have 
written them; and they are sealed up to come forth 
in their purity according to the truth which isin the 
Lamb, in the own due time of the Lord, unto the house 
of Israel. : 

And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name. 


3 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


of the apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the 
word of the angel. And I, Nephi, am forbidden that I 
should write the remainder of the things which I saw and 
heard; wherefore, the things which I have written suffi- 
ceth me; and I have not written but. a šmall part of the 
things which I stw, And I bear record, that I saw the 
things which my father saw, and the- angel of the Lord 
did make them known unto me. And now I make an 
end of speaking concerning the things which I saw, while 
I was carried away in the spirit; and if all the things 
which I saw are not written, the. things which I have 
written, are true. And thus itis. Amen. 


| mA Cornea 


CHAPTER IV. 


Anp it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been 
carried away in the spirit, and seen all these things, I 
returned to the tent of my father. And it came to pass 
that I beheld my brethren, and they were disputing one 
with another, concerning the things which my father had 
spoken unto them; for he truly spake many great things 
unto them, which were hard to be understood, save a man 
should inquire of the Lord; and thcy being hard in their 
hearts, therefore they did not look unto the Lord ag they 
ought. And now I, Nephi, was grieved because of the 
hardness of their hearts, and also because of the things 
which I had seen, and knew they must unavoidably'come to 
pass because of the great wickedness of the children of men. 

And it came to pass that I was overcome because of my 
afflictions, for I considered that mine afflictions were great 
above all, because of the destructions of my people; for I 
had beheld their fall. 

And it came to pass that after I had received strength, 
I spake unto my brethren, desiring to know of them the 
cause of thoir disputations. And they said, behold, we 
cannot understand the words which our father hath spoken 
concerning the natural branches of the olive tree, and also 
concerning the Gentiles. And I said unto them, have ye in- 

uired of the Lord? And they said unto me, we have not; 
or the Lord maketh no such thing known unto us. Be- 
hold, I said unto them, how is it that ye do not keep the 
-commandments of the Lord?, How is it that ye will perish 
because of the hardness of your hearts? Do ye not re- 
member the things which the Lord hath said, if ye will 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. aT 


not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing that 
ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my command- 
ments, surely, these things shall be made known untoyou? 

Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was com: 
pared unto an olive tree, by the spirit of the Lord which 

was in our fathers; and behold, are we not broken off from 
the house of Israel; and are we not a branch of the house. 
of Israel? And now, the thing which our father meaneth 

concerning the grafting in of the natural branches through 

the fullness of the Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when. 
our seed shall have dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the apace 

of many years, and many generations, after the Mesaiah 

shall be manifested in body unto the children of men, then 

shall the fullness of the gospel of the Messiah come unto. 
the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the remnant of 

our seed; and at that day, shall the remnant of our seed’ 
know that they are of the house of Israel, and that they 
are the covenant people of the Lord; and then shall they 
know and come to the knowledge of their forefathers, and 

also to the knowledge of the gospel of their Redeemer, 
which was ministered unto their fathers by him; where- 
fore, they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer, 
and the very points of his doctrine, that they may know 
how to come unto him and be saved. And then at that 
day, will they not rejoice and give praise unto their ever- 
lasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that 
day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment 

from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true 

fold of God? Behold, I say unto you, yea: they shall be 
remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall 
be grafted in, being a natural branch of the olive tree, into 
the true olive tree; and this is what our father meaneth; 
and he meaneth that it will not come to pass, until after 
they are scattered by the Gentiles; and he meaneth that it 
shall come by way of the Gentiles, that the Lord may shew 

his power unto the Gentiles, for the very cause that he shall 

be rejected of the Jews, or of the house of Israel: where- 
fore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but also 
of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which 

should be fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the 

Lord made to our father Abraham, saying, in thy seed shall 
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto. 
them concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them con- 
cerning the restoration of the Jews, in the latter days; and 
I did rehearse unto them tho ers of Isaiah, who spake 


38 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of 
Israel; and after they were restored, they should no more 
be confounded, neither should they be scattered again. 
And it came to pass that I did speak many words unto my 
brethren, that they were pacified, and did humble them- 
selves before the Lord. 

And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again, 
saying, what meaneth this thing which our father saw in 
adream? What meaneth the tree which he saw? And 
I said unto them, it was a representation of the tree of life. 
And they said unto me, what meaneth the rod of iron which 
our father saw, that led to the tree? And I said unto them, 
that it was the word of God; and whoso would hearken 
unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they 
would never poh ; neither could the temptations and the 
fiery darts of the adversary, overpower them unto blind- 
ness, to lead them away to destruction. Wherefore, I, 
Nephi, did exhort thein to give heed unto the word of the 
Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the energies of my 
soul, and with all the faculty which I possessed, that they 
would give heed to the word of God, and remember to 
keep his commandments always, ia all things. And they 
said unto me, what meaneth the river of water which our 
father saw? And I said unto them, that the water which 
my father saw, was filthiness; and 80 much was his mind 
swallowed up in other things, that he beheld not the filth- 
iness of the water; and I said unto them, that it was an 
awful gulf, which separateth the wicked from the tree of 
life, and also from the saints of God. And I said unto them, 
that it was a representation of that awful hell, which the 
angel said unto me was prepared for the wicked. And I 
said unto them that our father also saw, that the justice of 
God did also divide the wicked from the righteous; and 
the brightness thereof was like unto the brightness of a 
flaming fire, which ascendeth up unto God forever and 
ever, and hath no end. 

And they said unto me, doth this thing mean the torment 
of the body in the days of probation, or doth it mean the 
final state of the soul after the death of the temporal body, 
or doth it speak of the things which are temporal? And 
it came to pe that I said unto them, that it was a repre- 
sentation of things both temporal and spiritual; for the day 
should come that they must be judged of their works, yea, 
even the works which were done by the temporal body in 
their days of probation; wherefore, if they should die in 
their wickedness, they must be cast off also, as to the things 
‘which are spiritual, which are pertaining te righteousness; 


FIRST .BOOK OF NEPHI. 39 


wherefore, they must be brought to stand before God, to 
be judged of their works: and if their works have been 
filthiness, they must needs be filthy: and if they be filthy, 
it must needs be that they cannot dwell in the kingdom of 
God: if so, the kingdom of God must be filthy also. But 
behold, I say unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy, 
and there cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom 
of God: wherefore, there must needs be a place of tilthì- 
ness prepared for that which is filthy. And there is a place 
prepared, yea, even that awful hell of which I have spoken, 
and the devil is the foundation of it: wherefore, the final 
state of the souls of men is to dwell in the kingdom of God, 
or to be cast out because of that justice of which I have 
spoken; wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the right- 
eous, and also from that tree of life, whose fruit is 
most precious and most desirable above all other fruits: 
yee, and it is the greatest of all the gifts of God. And thus 
spake unto my brethren. Amen. 


— ooo 


CHAPTER V. 


Axp now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made 
an end of speaking to my brethren, behold, they said unto: 
me, thou hast declared unto us hard things, more than we 
are able to bear. 

And it came to pass that I said unto them, that I knew 
that I had spoken hard things against the wicked, accord- 
ing to the truth; and the righteous have I justified, and 
testified that they should be lifted up at the last day; where- 
fore, the guilty taketh the truth to be hard, for it cutteth 
them to the very center, And now, my brethren, if ye 
were righteous, and were willing to hearken to the truth, 
and give heed unto if, that ye might walk uptightly before 
God, then ye would not murmur because of the truth, and 
say thou speakest hard things against us. And it came to 
pass that I, Nephi, did cxhort my brethren, with all dili- 
gence, to keep the commandments of the Lord. And it 
came to pass that they did humble themselves before the 
Lord; insomuch that I had joy and great hopes of them, 
that they would walk in the paths of righteousness. Now, 
all these things were said and done, as my father dwelt in 
a tent in the valley which he called Lemuel. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the daugh- 
ters of Ishmael to wife: and also, my brethren took of the 


40 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


‘daughtcrs of Ishmael to wife: and also, Zoram took the 
eldest daughter of Ishmacl to wife. And thus my father 
-had fulfilled all the commandments of the Lord which had 
been given unto him. And also, I, Nephi, had been bless 
ed of the Lord exceedingly. l 

_ And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord spake 
unto my father, by night, and commanded him, that on 
the morrow, he should take his journey into the wilder- 
ness. And it came to pass that as my father arose in the 
morning, and went forth to the tent door, to his great ag 
tonishment, he beheld upon the ground a round ball, of 
curious workmanship: and it was of fine brass. And within 
the ball were two spindles: and the one pointed the way 
whither we should go into the wilderness. 

And it came to pass that we did gather together what- 
soever things we should carry into the wilderness, and all 
“the remainder of our provisions which the Lord had given 
“unto us; and we did take seed of every kind, that we might 
carry into the wilderness, 

And it came to pass that we did take our tents, and de- 
part into the wilderness, across the river Laman. And it 
came to pass that we travelled far the space of four days, 
nearly a south, southeast direction, and we did pitch our 
tents again; and we did call the name of the place Shazer. 

And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our 
arrows, and go forth into the wilderness, to slay food for 

: our families; and after we had slain food for our families, 

we did return again to our families in the wilderness, to 
the place of Shazer. And we did go forth again, in the 
wilderness, following the same direction, keeping in the 
most fertile parts of the wilderness, which were in the bor- 
ders near the Red Sea. And it came to pass that we did 
travel for the space of many days, slaying food by the way, 
with our bows and our arrows, and our stones and our 
slings; and we did follow the directions of the ball, which 
led us in the more fertile parts of the wilderness, And af- 
ter we had travelled for the space of many days, we did 
pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might again 
rest ourselves and obtain food for our families. 

And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to slay 
food, behold, I did break my bow, which was made of fine 
steel; and after I did break my bow, behold, my brethren 
were angry with me, because of the loss of my bow, for 
we did obtain no food. And it came to pass that we did 
return without food to our families, And being much fa- 
tigued, because of their journeying, they did suffer much 
for the want of food. 





FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 41 


` Andit eame to pass that Laman and Lemuel, and the 
sons of Ishmael, did begin to murmur exceedingly, be- 
eause of their sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness; 
and also my father began to murmur against the Lord his 
God; yea, and they were all exceeding sorrowful, even 
that they did murmur against the Lord. 

Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted 
with my bretliren, because of the loss of my bow: and their 
bows having lost their springs, it began to be exceedin 
difficult, yea, insomuch, that we could obtain no food. 
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did speak much unto 
my brethren, because they had hardened their hearts again, 
even unto complaining against the Lord their God. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make out of wood 
a bow, end out of a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I 
did arm myself with a bow and an arrow, with a sling, and 
with stones. And I said unto my father, whither shall I 
go, to obtain food?. And it came to pass that he did in- 
quire of the Lord, for they had humbled themselves be- 
cause of my word; for I did say many things unto them in 
the energy of my soul. 

And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto 
my father: and he was truly chastened because of his mur- 
muring against the Lord, insomuch that he was brought 
down into the depths of sorrow. And it came to pass that 
the voice of the Lord said unto him, look upon the ball, 
and behold the things which are written! And it came 
to pass that when my father beheld the things which were 
written upon the ball, he did fear and tremble exceedingly; 
and also my brethren, and the sons of Ishmael, and out 
wives. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pointers 
which were in the ball, that they did work according to 
the faith, and diligence, and heed, which we did give unto 
them. And there was also written upon them anew wri- 
ting, which was plain to be read, which did give us un- 
derstanding concerning the ways of the Lord: and it was 
written and changed from time to time, according to the 
faith and diligence which we gave unto it, And thus we 
— that by small means, the Lord can bring about great 
things. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into 
the top of the mountain, according to the directions which 
were given upon the ball. And it came to pase that I did 
slay wild beasts, insomuch that I did obtain food for our 
families. And it came to pass that I did return to our 

4 


a PIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


tents, bearing the beasts which I hed slain; and now, when 
they beheld that I had obtained food, how great was their 
joy. And it came to pass that they did humble themselves 
before the Lord, and did give thanks unto him. 

And it came to pass that we did again take our journey, 
travelling nearly the same course asin the beginning; and 
after we had travelled for the space of many days, we did 
pitch our tents again, that we might tarry for the space of 
a time. 

And it came to pass that Ishmael died, and was buried 
in the place which was called Nahom. And it came to 

that the daughters of Ishmael did mourn exceedingly, 
ecause of the loss of their father, and because of their af-. 
flictions in the wilderness; and they did murmur against 
my father, because he had brought them out of the land 
of Jerusalem, saying, our father is dead; yea, and we have 
wandered much in the wilderness, and we have suffered 
much affliction, hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and after al) 
these sufferings, we must perish in the wilderness with 
hunger. And thus they did murmur against my father, 
andaleo against me; and they were desirous to return again 
to Jerusalem. And Laman said unto Lemuel, and also 
unto the sons of Ishmael, behold, let us slay our father, 
and also our brother Nephi, who has taken it upon him to 
be our ruler and our teacher, who are his elder brethren: 
Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him, and also, 
that angels have ministered untohim? But behold, we 
know that he lies unto us: and he tells us these things, and 
he worketh many things by his cunning arts, that he may 
deceive our eyes, thinking, perhaps, that he may lead us 
away into some strange wilderness; and after he has led us 
away, he has thought to make himself a king and a ruler 
over us, that he may do with us according to his will and 
pleasure. And after this manner, did my brother Laman 
stir up their hearts to anger. . 

And it came to pase that the Lord was with us; yea, even 
the voice of the Lord came and did speak many words unto 
them, and did chasten them exceedingly; and after they 
were chastened by the voice of the Lord, they did turn away 
their anger, and did repent of their sins, insomuch that the 
Lord did bless us again with food, that we did not perish. 

And it came to pass that we did again take our journey 
in the wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward, from 
that time forth. And we did travel and wade through 
much affliction in the wilderness; and our women did bear 
children in the wilderness. And so great were the bless- 
ings of the Lord upon us, that while we did live upon raw 


Pikst BOOK OF NEPÉR 7. 


meat in the wilderness, our women did give plenty of suck 
for their children, and were strong, yea, even like unto the 
men; and they began to bear their journeyings without 
murmurings. And thus we see that the commandments 
of God must be fulfilled. And if it so be that the children 
of men keep the commandments of God, he doth nourish 
them, and strengthen them, and provide means whereby 
they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded 
them: wherefore, he did provide means for us while we 
did sojourn in the wilderness. And we did sojourn for the 
space of many years, yea, even eight years in the wilder- 
ness. And we did come to the land which we called 
Bountiful, because of its much fruit, and also wild honey; 
and all these things were prepared of the Lord, that we 
might not perish. And we beheld the sea, whieh we oalled 
hreantum, which being interpreted, is, many waters. 

And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the 
seashore; and notwithstanding we had suffered many af- 
flictions, ‘and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we 
cannot write them all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when 
we came to the seashore; and we called the place Boun- 
tifal, because of its much fruit. 

And it came to paes that after I, Nephi, had been in the 
land of Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of 
the Lord came unto me, saying, arise, and get thee into the 
mountain. And it came to pass thet I arose and went up 
into the mountain, and cried unto the Lord. 

And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, say- 
ing, thou shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I 
shall shew thee, that I may carry thy people across these 
waters. And I said, Lord, whither shall 1 go, that I may 
find ore to molten, that I may make tools to construct the 
ship, after the manner which thou hast shewn unto me? 
And it came to pass that the Lord told me whither I should 
go, to find ore, that I might make teols. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bellows 
wherewith to blow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and af- 
ter I had made a bellows, that I might have wherewith to 
blow the fire, I did smite two stones together, that I might 
make fire; for the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we 
should make much fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; 
for he said, I will make thy food become sweet, that ye 
cook it not; and I will also be your light in the wilderness; 
and I wili prepare the way before you, if it so be that ye 
shall keep my commandments; wherefore, inasmuch as 
ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall be led towards 
the promised land: and ye shall know that it is by me that 


44. FIRST. BOOK OF NEPHI. 


ye are lad. Yea, and the Lord said also, that after ya have 
arrived to the promised land, ye shall know that I, the 
Lord, am God; and thatI, the Lord, did deliver you from. 
destruction; yea, that I did bring you out of the land of Je- 
rusalem. Wherefore, I, Nephi, did strive to keep the com- 
mandments of the Lord, and I did exhort my brethren 
to faithfulness and diligence. 

And it came to pass that I did make tools of the ore 
which I did molten out of the reck. And when my. 
brethren saw that I was about to build a ship, they began 
to murmur against me, saying, our brother isa fool, for he 
thinketh that he can build a ship: yea, and he also think- 
eth thathe can cross these great waters. And thus my 
brethren did complain against me, and were desirous that 
they might not labor, for they did not believe that I could 
build a ship; neither would they believe that I was in- 
structed of the Lord. 

And now it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceedin 
sorrowful, because of the hardness of their hearts; an 
now when they saw that I began to be sorrowful, they 
were, glad in their hearts, insomuch that they did rejoice 
over me, saying, we knew that ye could not contaructa ship, 
for we knew that ye were lacking in judgment; wherefore 
thou canst not accomplish so great a work; and thou art 
like unto our father, led away by the foolish imaginations. 
- of his heart; yea, he hath led us out of the land of Jerusa- 
lem; and we have wandered in the wilderness for these 
many years; and our women have toiled, being big with 
child; and they have borne childrenin the wilderness and 
suffered all things, save it were death; and it would have 
been better that they had died, before they came out of Jeru- 
salem, than to havesutfered these afflictions. Behold, these 
many years we have suffered in the wilderness, which time 
we might have enjoyed our possessions, and the land of 
our inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy; and 
we know that the people who were in the land of Je 
lem, where a righteous people; for they kept the statutes 
and the judgments of the Lord, and all his commandments 
according to the Law of Moses; wherefore, we know that 
they are a righteous people; and our father hath judged 
them, and hath led us away because we would hearken 
unto his words; yea, and our brother is like unto him.— 
And after this manner of language did my brethren mur- 
mur and complain against us. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them, 
saying, do ye believe that our fathers, who were the child- 
ren of Israel, would have been led away out of the hands 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 45 


ofthe Egyptians, if they had not hearkened unto the words 
of the Lord? Yea, do ye suppose that they would have 
been led out of bondage, if the Lord had not commanded 
Moses that he should lead them out of bondage? Now, 
ye know that the children of Israel were in bondage; 
and ye know that they were laden with tasks, which were 
grievous to be borne; wherefore, ye know that it must 
neds be a good thing for them, that they should be 
brought out of bondage. Now ye know that Moses was 
cmmanded of the Lord to do that great work; and ye 
know that by his word, the waters of the Red Sea were 
divided hither and thither, and they passed through on d 
ound. But ye know that the Egyptians were drowne 
inthe Red Sea, who were the armies of Pharaoh; and ye 
aso know that they were fed with manna in the wilder- 
hess; yea, and ye also know that Moses, by his word, ac- 
cording to the power of God which was in him, smote the 
nek,and there came forth water, that the children of Is- 
mel might quench their thirst; and notwithstanding they 
being led, the Lord their God, their Redeemer, going be- 
fore them, leading them by day, and giving light unto 
them by night, and doing all things for them which were 
expédient for man to receive, they hardened their hearts, 
and blinded their minds, and reviled against Moses and 
against the true and living God. 
And it came to pass that according to his word, he did 
destroy them: and according to his word, he did lead 
them; and according to his word, he did do all things for 
them; and there was not any thing done, save it were by his 
word. And after they had crossed the river Jordan, he 
did make them mighty, unto the driving out the children 
of the land, yea, unto the scattering them to destruction. 
And now do ye suppose that the children of this land, who 
were in the land of promise, who were driven out by our 
fathers, do ye suppose that they were righteous? Behold, 
I say unto you, nay. Do ye suppose that our fathers would 
have been more choice than they, if they had been righte- 
ous? I say unto you nay; behold, the Lord esteemeth all 
flesh inone; He that is righteous, is favored of God. But 
behold, this people had rejected every word of God, and 
they wereripe in iniquity; and the fullness of the wrath of 
God was upon them; and the Lord did curse the land against 
them, and bless it unto our fathers; yea, he did curse . 
it against them unto their destruction; and he did bless i§ 
unto our fathers, unto their obtaining power over it, Bes 
hold, the Lord hath created the earth that it should ba 
inhabited; and he hath created his children, that the 


46 FIRST BOOX OF NEPHI. 


should possess it. And he raiseth i a righteous na- 
tion, and destroyeth the nations of the wicked. And 
he leadeth away the righteous into precious lands, and 
the wicked he destroyeth, and curseth the land unto them 

for their sakes. He ruleth high in the heavens, for it is his 
throne, and this earth is his footstool. And he loveth those 
who will have him to be their God. Behold, he loved our 
fathers, and he covenanted with them, yea, even Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob: and he remembered the covenants which 
he had made; wherefore, he did bring them out of the land 
of Egypt, and he did straighten them in the wilderness with 
his rod, for they hardened their hearts, even as ye have: 
and the Lord straightened them because of their iniquity. 
He sent fiery-flying serpents among them: and after they 
were bitten, he prepared a way that they might be healed; 
and the labor whic they had to perform, was to look! and 
because of the simpleness of the way, or the easiness of 
it, there were many who perished. And they did harden 
their hearts from time to time, and they did revile against 
Moses, and also against God; nevertheless, ye know that 
they were led forth by his matchless power into the land 
of promise. And now, after all these things, the time has 
come that they have become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripe- 
ness; and I know not but they are atthis day about to 
be destroyed: for I know that the day must surely come, 
that they must be destroyed, save a few only, who shall be 
led away into —— wherefore, the Lord commanded 
my father, that he should depart into the wilderness; and 
the Jews also sought to take away his life; yea, and ye also 
have sought to take away his life: wherefore, ye are mur- 
derers in your hearts, and ye are like untothem. Ye are 
swift to do iniquity, but slow toremember the Lord your 
God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto qu yea, 
ye have heard his voice from time to time: and he hath 
poa unto you in a still, small voice, but ye were past 

eeling, that ye could not feel his words; wherefore, he 
has spoken unto you like unto the voice of thunder, which 
did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide asun- 
der. And ye also know, that by the power of his almighty 
word, he can cause the earth that itshall pass away; yea, 
and ye know that by his word, he can cause the rough oe 
ces to be made smooth, and smooth places shall be broken 
up. O, then, why is it, that ye can be so hard in your 
hearts? Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of 
you, and my heart is pained: I fear lest ye shall be cast 
off forever. Behold, I am full of the spirit of God, inso- 
much that my frame has no strength. 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 47 


And now it came to pass that when I had spoken these 
words, they were angry with me, and were desirous to 
throw me into the depths of the sea; and as they came forth 
to lay their hands upon me, I spake unto them, saying, in 
the name of the Almighty God, I command you that ye 
touch me not, for I am filled with the power of God, even 
unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay their 
hands upon me, shall wither even as a dried reed; and ke 
shall be as nought before the power of God, for God shall 
smite him. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them, that 
they should murmur no more against their father, neither 
should they withhold their labor from me, for God had 
commanded me that I should build a ship. And I said 
unto them, if God had commanded me to do all things, I 
could do them. If he should command me that I should 
_ ‘gay unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and 
if I should say it, it would be done. And now, if the Lord 
bas such great power, and has wrought so many miracles 
among the children of men, how is it that he cannot in- 
struct me, that I should build a ship? 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things unto 
my brethren, insomuch that they were confounded, and 
could not contend against me; neither durst they lay their 
‘hands upon me, nor touch me with their fingers even for 
‘the space of many days. Now they durst not do this, lest 
they should wither before me, so powerful was the spirit 
of God, and thus it had wrought upon them. 

And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, stretch 
forth thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall 
not wither before thee, but I will shock them, saith the 
Lord and this will I do, that they may know that I am the 
Lord their God. 

And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand unto 
my brethren, and they did not wither before me; but the 
Lord did shake them, even according to the word which 
he had spoken. And now they said, we know of a surety, 
that the Lord is with thee, for we know that it is the pow- 
er of the Lord that has shaken us, And they fell down 
before me, and were about to worship me, but I would not 
suffer them, saying, I am thy brother, yea, even thy young- 
er brother; wherefore, worship the Lord thy God, and hon- 
or thy fatherand thy mother, that thy days may be long in 
the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee. 

And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and 
did go forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious 
workmanship. And the Lord did shew me from time to 


48 FIRST BOOK OF NEPEL 

time, after what manner I should work the timbers of the 
ship. Now I, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the 
- manner which was learned by men, neither did I build the 
ship after the manner of men; but Idid build it after the 
manner which the Lord had shewn unto me; wherefore, it 
was not after the manner of men. 

And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did pray 
oft unto the ara wherefore, the Lord shewed unto me 
great things. | 

And it came to pass that after I had finished the ship ac- 
cording to the word of the Lord, my brethern beheld that it 
was good, and that the workmanship thereof was exceeding 
fine; wherefore, they did humble themselves again before 
the Lord. 

And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto 
my father, that we should arise and go down into the ship. 
And it came to pass that on the morrow, after we had pre- 
pared all things, much fruits and meat.from the wilderness, 
and honey in abundance, and provisions, according to that 
which the Lord had commanded us, we did go down into 
the ship with all our loading and our seeds, and whatsoever 
thing we had brought with us, every one according to his 
age; wherefore, we did all go down into the ship, with our 
wives and our children. 

And now, my father had begat two sons, in the wilder- 
ness: The eldest was called Jacob, and the younger, Jo- 
seph. And it came to pass after we had all gone down into 
the ship, and had taken with us’ our provisions and things 
which had been commanded us, we did put forth into the 
sea, and were driven forth before the wind, towards the 
promised land; and after we had been driven forth before 
the wind, for the space of many days, behold my brethren, 
and the sons of Ishmael, and also their wives, began to make 
themselves merry, insomuch that they began to dance, and 
to sing, and tospeak with much rudeness; yea, even that 
they did forget by what power they had been brought thith- 
er; yea, they were lifted up unto exceeding rudeness. And 
I, Nephi, began to fear exceedingly, lest the Lord should 
be angry with us, and smite us, because of our iniquity, that. 
we should be swallowed up in the depths of thesea; where~ 
fore, I, Nephi, began to speak to them with much soberness ; 
but behold, they were angry with me, saying, we will not 
that our younger brother shal! be a ruler over us. 

And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me 
and bind me with cords, and they did treat me with much 
barehness; nevertheless, the Lord did sufferit, that he might 


FIRST: BOOK OF NEPER 49 


shew forth his power, unto the fulfilling of his word whieh 
he had spoken, concerning the wicked. 

And it came to pasa that after they had bound me, inso- 
much that I could not move, the compass, which had been 
— of the Lord, did cease ork; wherefore, they 

ew not whither theyshould steer the ship, insomuch, that 
there arose a great storm, yea, a great and terrible tempest; 
and we were driven back upon the waters for the space of 
three days; and koy began to he frightenéd exceedingly, 
lest they should be drowned in the sea: nevertheless, they 
did not loose me. And on the fourth day which we had 
been driven back, the tempest began to be exceeding sore. 

And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed 
upin the depths of the sea. And efter we had been driven 
back upon the waters for the space of four daye, my breth- 
ren began to see that the judgments of God were upon 
them, and that they must perish, save-that they should re- 
pent of their iniquities; wherefore, they came unto me 
and loosed the bands which were upon my wrists, and 
behold, they had-swollen exceedingly; and also mine an- 
cles were much swollen, and great was the soreness thereof, 
Nevertheless, I did look unto my God, and I did praise him 
all thedaylong; and I didnot murmur against the Lord, be- 
cause of mine afflictions. 

Now, my father Lehi, had said many things unto them, 
and also unto the sons of Ishmael; but behold, they did 
breathe out much threatnings against any one that should 
speak forme; and my parents being stricken in years, and 
having suffered much grief because of their children, they 
were brought down, yea, even upon theirsick beds. Because 
of their grief, and much sorrow, and the. iniquity of my 
brethren, they were brought near even to be carried out of 
this time, to meet their God; yea, their grey hairs were about 
to be brought down to he low in the dust; yea, evon they 
were near to be cast, with sorrow, intoa watery grave. And 
Jacob and Joseph also, being young, having need of much 
nourishment, were grieved because of the afflictions of their 
mother; and also my wife, with her tears and prayers, and al- 
so my children, did not soften the hearts of my brethren, that 
they would loose me; and there was nothing, save it were 
the power of God, which threatened them with destruction, 
could soften their hearta; wherefore, when they saw that 
they were about to be swallowed up in the depths of the 
sea, they repented of the thing which they had done, inso- 
much thet they loosed me. 

And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I 

5 


OCF Ss 
Ld 


YII Ap Yr JAW 


V 


ily 


t? 


/ 


pee ale as 


~ee © >} 


` > qt 


50 FIRST BOOK OF: WRYHI. — 

took the compass, and it did work whither I desiredit. And 
it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord; and after I had 
prayed, the winds did cease, and the sterm did cease, and 
there was a great calm. 

And it came to pase that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that 
we sailed again towards the promised, land. And it came 
to pass that after we had sailed for the space of many days, 
we did arrive tothe promised land; and we went forth upon 
the land, and did pitch‘ our tents; dnd we did call it the 
promised land. | 

And it came to bee that we did begin to till the earth, 
and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds 
into the earth, which we had brought from the land of Jeru- 
salem. Andit came to passthat they did grow exceedingly; 
wherefore; we were blessed in abundance. . 

And it came to pass that ‘we did find upon the land of. 
romise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were 
easts in the forests of every kind, both the cow, and the ox, 

and the ass, and the horse, and the goat, and the wild goat, 
and all manner of wild animals, which were for the use of 
men. And we did find all manner of ore, both of gold, 
and of silver, and of copper. = A 

- And itcame to pass that the Lord commanded me, where- 
fore I did make plates of ore, that I might engraven upon 
them the record of my people. And upon the plates which 
I made, I did engraven the record of my father, and also our 
journeyings in the wilderness, 'and the prophecies of my 
father; and also many of mine own prophecies have 1 
engraven upon them. And I knew not at the time when I 
made them, that I should be commanded of the Lord to 
make these plates; wherefore, the record of my father, 
and the genealogy of his forefathers, and the more part of 
all our proceedings in the wilderness, are engraven upon 
those plates of whichI have spoken; wherefore, the thin 
which transpired before I made these plates, are, of a truth, 
more particularly made mention upon the first plates. 

' And after I had made these plates by way of command~ 
ment, I, Nephi, received a commandment, that the minis- 
uy and the prophecies, the more plain and precious parte 
of them should be written upon these plates: and that the 
things which were written, should be kept for the instruc- 
tion of my people, who should possess the land, and also for 
other wise purposes, which purposes, are known unto the 
Lord; wherefore I, Nephi, did make a record, upon the 
other plates, which gives an account, or which gives a great- 
er account of the wars, and contentions, and destructions of 
æy people. And this have I done, and commanded my 


‘FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. $i 


people what they should do, after I was gone, and that these 
plates should be handed down from one generation to ano- 
ther, or from one kare to another, until further command- 
mentsofthe Lord. And an accountof my making these 
plates shall be given hereafter; and then, behold, I proceed 
according to that which I have spoken and this I do, that 
the more sacred things may be kept for the knowledge of my 
people. Nevertheless, I do not write any thing upon plates, 
gave it be that I think it be sacred. And now, if I doerr, 
even did they err ofold. Notthat I would excuse myself 
because of other men, but because of the weakness which 
is in me, according to the flesh, I wouldexcuse myself. For 
the things which some men esteem to be of great worth, 
both to the body and soul, others set at nought, and tram- 
ple under their feet. Yea, even the very God of Israel, 
do men trample under their feet; I say, trample under their 
feet; but I would speak in other words: They set him 
at nought, and hearken not to the voice of his counsels;. 
and behold, he cometh according to the words of the angel, 
in six hundred years from the time my father left Jerusalem. 
And the world, because of their iniquity, shall judge him 
to bea thing of nought; wherefore, they scourge him, and 
he suffereth it; and they smite him and he suffereth it. 
Yea, they spit upon him, and he suffereth it, because of his 
loving kindness and his long suffering towards the children 
ofmen. And the God of our fathers, who were led out of 
Egypt, out of bondage, and also were preserved in the wil- 
derness by him; yea, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, 
and the God of Jacob, yieldeth himself according to the 
words of the angel, ks a man, into the hands of wicked men, 
te be lifted up according to the words of Zenock, and to be 
erucifred, according to the words of Neum, and to be 
buried in a sepulchre, according to the words of Zenos, 
which, he spake concerning the. three days of darkness, 
which should be a sign given of his death, unto those who 
should inhabit the isles of the sea; more especially given 
unto those who are of the house of Israel. For thus spake 
the prophet, the Lord God surely shall visit all the house 
of Israel at that day: somé with his voice, because of their 
righteousness, unto their great joy and salvation; and others 
with the —— and the lightnings of his power, b 
tempest, by fire, and by smoke, and vapour of darkness, an 
by the opening of the earth, and by mountains which shall 
be carried up; and all these things must surely come, saith 
the prophet Zenos. And the rocks of the earth must rend; 
and because of the groanings of the earth, many of the kings 
of the isles of the sea shall be wrought upon by the spirit 


32 ‘FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


of God, to exclaim, the God of nature suffers. And as for 
those who are at, Jerusalem, saith the prophet, shall be 
scourged by all people, because they crucify the God of 
Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and won- 
ders, and power and glory of the God of Israel; and because 
they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and have de- 
spised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in the flesh, 
and perish, and become a hiss and a by-word and be hated 
among all nations: nevertheless, when that day cometh, 
saith the prophet, that they no more turn aside their hearts 
against the Holy One of Israel, then, will he remember the 
covenants which he made to their fathers: yea, then will 
he remember the isles of the sen: yea, and all the people 
who are of the house of Israel, will'I gather in, saith the 
Lord, according to the words of the prophet Zenos, from 
the four qnarters of the earth; yea, and all the earth shalt 
see the salvation of the Lord, saith the prophet; every na- 
tion, kindred, tongue and people, shall be blessed. | 

And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, 
that shape Enigk persuade them that they would remem- 
ber the Lord their Redeemer: wherefore, A eak unto all 
the house of Israel, if it so be that they should obtain these 
things. For behold, I have working4in the spirit, which 
doth weary me, even that all my joints are weak, for those 
who are at Jerusalem: for had not the Lord been merciful, 
to shew unto me concerning them, even as he had Prepac 
of old, I should have perished also: and he surely did shew 
unto the prophets of old, all things concerning them; and 
also he did shew unte many concerning us; wherefore, it 
must needs be, that we know concerning them, for they 
are written upon the plates of brass. ` ; 


— Gi oaan ‘ 


CHAPTER VI. > 


Now-it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my breth- 
ren these things. And it came to pass that I did read man 
things to them, which were engraven upon the plates of 
brass, that they might know con rR the doings of the - 
` Lord in other lands, among people of old.: And I did read 
many things unto them, which were written in the book of. 
Moses; but that I might more fully persuade them to be- 
lieve in the Lord their Redeemer. Wherefore, I did read 
unto them thet which was written by the prophet Isaiah; 
for I did liken all scriptures unto us, that it might be for 


FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. | $3 


our profitand learning. Wherefore, I spake unto them, 
saying, hear ye the words of the prophet, ye who are a rem- 
nant of the house of Israel, a branch who have been bros 
ken off, hear Ph the words of the prophet, which were writ- 
ten unto all the house of Israel, and liken them unto your- 
selves, that ye may have hope as well as your brethren, from 
whom ye have been broken off. - For after this manner has 
the prophet written: Hearken and hear this, O house of 
Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come 
forth out of the waters of Judah, (or out of the waters of 
baptism,) who swear by the name of the Lord, and make 
mention of the God of Israel; yet they swear not in truth, 
nor in righteousness. Nevertheless, they call themselves 
of the Holy city, but they do not stay themselves upon the 
God of Israel, who is the Lord of hosts: yea, the Lord of 
hosts is-his name. Behold, I have declared the former 
things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my 
mouth, and I shewed them; I did shew them suddenly. 
And I did it because I knew that thou art obstinate, and 
thy neck was an iron sinew, and thy brow brass, and 
have, even from the beginning, declared to thee; before it 
came to pase I shewed them thee; and I shewed them fot 
fear lest thou shouldst say, mine ido! hath done them, and 
my graven image, and my molten image hath commanded 
them. Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will ye not 
declare them? And that I have shewed thee new things 
from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not 
know thom. They are created now, and not from the be- 
ginning; even before the day when thou heardest them not, 
they were declared unto thee, lest thou shouldst say, be- 
hold, I knew them. Yea, and thou heardest not; yea, thou 
knewest not; yea, from that time thine ear was not opened : 
for I knew that thou wouldst deal very treacherously, and 
wast called a transgressor from the womb., ' 
Neverthelese, for my name’s sake will I defer mine an- 
er, and for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut 
thee not eff. For, behold, I have refined thee; I have 
chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. For mine own 
sake, yea, for mine own sake, will I dothia; for I will not 
suffer my name to be polluted, and I will not give my 
glory-unto another. « s 
Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called; for I 
am he; I am the’first, and I am also the last. Mine hand 
hath also laid the foundation of thd earth, and my right 
hand hath spanned the heavens; I call unto them, and 
they stand up together, All Jo assemblo yourselves, and 
5 ; i 


&4 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


hear; who aonig them hath declared these things unto 
them? The Lord hath loved him; yea, and he will ful- 
fil his word which he hath declared by them; and he will 
do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall come upon 
the Chaldeans. Also, saith the Lord: I the Lord, yea, I have 
spoken; yea, I have called him, to declare, I have brought 
him, aude shall make his way prosperous. —* 
Come ye, near unto me; I have notspoken in secret from 
the beginning; from the time that it was declared, have 
I spoken; and the Lord God, and his spirit, hath sént me. 
And thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One: of 
Israel: I have sent him, the Lord thy God who teacheth 
thee to profit, who leadeth thee by the way thou shouldst 
go, has done it. O that thou hadst hearkened to my com 
mandment! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy 
righteousness as the waves of the aea: thy seed also had 
been as the sand; the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel 
thereof: his name should not have been cut off nor do- 
stroyed from before me. 
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with 
a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end of 
the earth; say ye, the Lord hath redeemed his servant Ja- 
cob. And they thirsted not: heled them through the des- 
erts: he pes | the waters te flow out of the rock for them; 
he clave the rock.also, and the waters gushed oyt. And 
notwithstanding he hath done all this, and greater also, 
there is no peace, saith the Lord unto the wicked. 
And again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye that are 
broken off and are driven out, because of the wickednesa 
of the pastors of my people; yea, all ye that are broken off, 
that are scattered abroad, who are of my people, O house of 
Israel. Listen O isles unto me; and hearken, ye people, 
from far; the Lord hath called me from the womb; from 
- the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my 
name. And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword ; 
in the shadow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me 
a polished shaft: inhis quiver hath he hid me; and said un- 
to me, thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be 
glorified. Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have 
apent my strength for nought, and in vain; surely, my 
judgment is with the Lord, and my work with my God. 
And now, saith the Lord, that formed me from the womb 
that I should be his servant, fo bring Jacob ogain to him: 
Though Israel be not*gathered, yet shall I be glorious in 
the yes of the Lord, and my God shall be my strength. 
And he said, it is a light thing that theu shouldst be m 
servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the 


PINOT BOOK OP NAPI. 4 


et of fnras}. I will also give thee for alight tothe 
Bontiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends 
of the earth. Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, 
his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom 
the nations abhorreth, to servant of rulers, kings shall see 
and arise, princes also shall worship, because of the Lord 
that is faithful. Thus saith the Lord, in an accepteble time 
have I heard thee, O isles of the sen, and in a day of salva- 
tion have I helped thee: and I will preserve thee, and give 
thee my servant for a covenant of the people, to establish 
the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages: that 
thon mayest say to the prisoners, Go forth; to them that sit 
in darkness, Shew yourselves. They shall feed in the 
Ways, and their pastures shall be in all high places. They 
shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the 
gan smitethem: for he that hath mercy on them shall lead 
them, even by the springs of. water shall he guide them. 
And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways 
shall be exalted. And then, O house of Israel, behold, 
these shall come from far; and lo, these from the north and 
from the west; and thege from the land of Sinim. . 
Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of 
those who are in the east shall be established, and break forth 
into singing, O mountains: for they shall be smitten no more: 
for the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have merc 
upon hisafflicted. But behold, Zion hath said, the Lord hat 
forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me; but he will 
shew that he hath not. . For can a woman forget her suck- 
ing child, that she should not have compassion on the son 
ofher womb? Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget 
thee, O house of Ismael. Behold, I have graven thee u 
the palmas of my hands; thy walls are continually before 
me. Thy children shall make haste against thy destroy- 
ers; and they that made thee waste, shall go forth of thee. 
- Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these 
gener themselves tagether, and they shall come to thee. 
nd as I live, saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clotho thee 
with them all, as with an ornament, and bind them on even 
as a bride. For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the 
land of thy destruction, shall ever! now be too narrow by 
reason ef the inhabitants; and they that swallowed thse up, 
shall be far away. The children whom thou, shalt have, 
after thou hast lost the first, shall again in thine ears say, the 
place is too straight forme; give place to me that I may 
dwell. Then shalt thou sey in thine heat, who hath be- 
en me these, seeing I have lost my ehildren, and am 
asalae, à captive, and removing to and fro? and who hath 











BG FIRST BOOK OF NEPAI. 


brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; theneyw. 
have they been? Thus saith the Lord God, behold, I wi 
lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard 
to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their 
arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoul- 
ders. And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their 
queens thy nursing mothers: they. shall bow down to thee 
with their face towards the earth, and lick up the dust of 
thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lard: for they 
ehall not be ashamed that wait for me. For shall the prey 
be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives delivered ? 
But thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty 
shal] be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be 
delivered: for I will contend with him that contendeth 
with thee, and I will save thy children. And I will feed 
them that oppress thee with their own flesh: they shall be 
drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine; and 
all flesh shall know that I the Lord am thy. Savior and thy. 
Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. mo, 


— 


CHAPTER VII. 


Anp now it came to pass that after I Nephi, had read 
these things which were engraven upon che plates of brase, 
my brethren came unto me and said unto me, what mean- 
eth these things which ye have read? Behold, are they to 
be understood according’ to things which are spiritual, 
which shall come to pass according ta the spirit and not 
the flesh. And I, Nephi, said unto them, beheld, they 
were manifest unto the prophet, by the voice of the spirits 
for by the spirit are all thinge made known unto the pro~ 

hets, which shall come upon the children of men accord- 
ing to the flesh. Wherefore, the things of which I have 
read, are things pertaining to things both temporal and | 
spiritual: for it appears that the. house of Israel, sooner or 
later, will be scattered upon all the face of the earth, and 
also among all nations, and behold there are many who are 
already lost from the knowledge of those who are at Jeru-. 
salem. Yea, the more part of all the tribes have-been led 
away; and they are scattered to and fro upon the isles of 
the sea; and whither they are, none of us knoweth, save 
that we know that they have heen led away..Andsince they 
have been led away, these thingshave been prophesied oon- 
cerning them, end also concerning all those who shall here- 


‘FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 67 


éftor be peattered and be confounded, because of the holy 
One of Israel; for against him will they harden their hearts 
wherefore, they shall be scattered among all nations, an 
shall be hated of all men. Nevertheless, after they shall 
be nursed by the Gentilee, and the Lord has lifted up his 
hand upon the Gentile’ and set them up for a standard, and 
their children have been carried in their arms, and their 
daughters have been carried upon their shoulders, behold, 
these things of which are spoken, arg temporal: for thus 
are the covenants of the Lord with our fathers; and it mean- 
eth us in the days to come, and also all our brethren who 
are of the house of Israel. And it meaneth that the time 
cometh that after all the house of Israel have been scattered 
and confounded, that the Lord God will raise upa mi hty 
nation among the Gentiles, yea, even upon the fice of this 
land; and by them shall our seed be scattered. And after 
our seed is scattered, the Lord God will proceed to doa 
mervellous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of 
great worth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto 
their being nourished by the Gentiles, and being carried 
in their arms, and upon their shoulders. And it shall also 
be of worth unto the Gentiles: and not only unto the Gen- 
tiles, but unto all the house of Israel, unto the making 
known of the covenants of the Father of heaven unto Abra- 
ham, saying, in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth 
be blessed, And I would, my brethren, that ‘ye should 
know that all the kindreds of the earth cannot be blessed, 
unlees he shall make bare his arm in the eyes of the na- 
tions Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to make 
bare his arm in the eyes of ali the nations, in bringing about 
his covenants and his gospel, anto those who ate of the 
house of Israel. Wherefore, he will bring them again out 
of captivity, and they shall be gathered together to the 
lands of their inheritance: and they shall be brought out 
of obscurity, and out of darkness: and they shall know 
that the Lord is their Savior and their Redeemer, the 
mighty. one of Israel. And the blood of that great end 
abominable church, which is the whore of all the earth, 
shall turn upon their own heads; for they shall war er 
themselves, and the sword of their own hands shall fi 
upon their own heads, and they shall be drunken vith | 
their own blood. And every nation which shall war against 
thee, O house of Israel, shall be turned one against anoth- 
er, and they shall fall into the pit whieh they digged to en- 
snare the people of the Lord. And all that fight against 
Zien, shall be destroyed. And that great whore, who hath 
perverted the sight ways of the Lord; yea, that greet aud 


68 . FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 


abominable church, shall tumble to the dust, and great 
shall be the fall of it. For behold, saith the prophet, the 
time cometh speedily, that satan shall have no-more power 
over.the hearts of the children of mep: for the day soon 
cometh, that all the proud and they who do Wickedly, shall 
be asstubble: and the day cometh that they muat be burz- 
ed. For the time soon cometh, that the fullness of the 
‘wrath of God shall be poured out upon all the children of 
men: for he will not suffer thatthe wicked shall destroy 
the righteous. Wherefore, he will preserve the righteous 
by his power, even if it so be that the fullness of his wrath 
must come, and the righteous be preserved, even unto the 
destruction of their enemies by fire. Wherefore, the right- 
eous need not fear: for thus saith the prophet, they shall 
be saved, even if it so be as by fire. Behold, my brethren, 
I say unto you, thet these things must shortly come; yea, 
even blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke must come; and 
it must needs be upon the face of this earth; and it cometh 
unto men according to the flesh, if it so be that they will 
harden their hearts against the Holy One of Israel: for bẹ- 
hold, the righteous shall not perish: for the time surely 
must come, that all they who fight against Zion, shall be 
cut off. And the Lord will surely prepare a way for his 
people, unto the fulfilling of the words of Moses, whiçh 
e spake, saying: A prophet shall the Lord your God raise 
up unto you, like unto me; him shall ye hearin all things 
whatsoever he shall say unto you. And it shall come to 
pass that all those who will not hear that prophet, shall be 
cut off from among the people. And now l, Nephi, de- 
clare unto you,. that this prophet of whom Moses spake, 
was the Holy One of Israel; wherefore, he shall execute 
judgment in righteousness; and the righteous need not 
ear, for they are those who shall not be cphfounded. But 
it is the kingdom of the devil which shall be built up among 
the children of men, which kingdom is established amon 
them which are in the flesh: for the time speedily shal 
come, that all churches which are built up to get gain, and 
all those who are built up to get power over the fesh, and 
those who are built up to become popular in the eyes of 
the world, and those who seek the lusts of the flesh and 
the things of the world, and to do all manner of iniquity; 
yea, in fine, all those who belong to the kingdom of the 
devil, are théy who need fear, and tremble, and quake: 
they are those who must be brought low inthe dust; the 
are those who must be consumed as stubble: and this ig 
eccording to the words of the prophet. And the time 
cometh speedily, that the righteous must be led up es calves 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 59 


of the stall, and the Holy One of Israel must reign in dd- 
minion, and might, and power, and great glory. And he 
gathereth his children from the four quarters of the earth; 
and he numbereth his sueep, and they know him; and there 
shall be one fold and one shepherd: and he shall feed his 
sheep, and in him they shall find pasture. And because 
of the righteousness of his people, satan has no power; 
wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the space of many years; 
for he hath no power over the hearts of the people, for they 
dwell in righteousness, and the Holy One of Israel reign- 
eth. And now behold, I, Nephi, say unto you, that all 
these things must come according to the flesh. But, be- 
hold, all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, shall dwell 
safely in the Holy One of Israel, if it so be that they will 
Tepent. : ; 

And now I, Nephi, make an end; for I durst not speak 
farther as yet, concerning these things. Wherefore, my. 
brethren, T would that ye should consider that the things 
which have been written upon the plates of brass, are true; 
and they testify that a man must be obedient to the com- 
mandments of God. Wherefore, ye need not suppose that 
I and my father are the only ones that have testified, and 
also taught them. Wherefore, if ye shall be obedient to 
the commandments, and endure to the end, ye shall be 
saved at the last day. And thusitis. Amen. 


. -ppe 


THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


CHAPTER I. 


An aecount of the death of Lehi. Nephũs brethren rebelleth 
against him. The Lord warns Nephi to depart into the 
wilderness. His journeyings tn the wilderness, &e. 


AND now it came to pags after I, Nephi, had made an 
end of teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake 
many things unto them, how great things the Lord had 
done for them, in bringing them out of-the land of Jerusa- 
lem. And he spake unto them concerning their rebellions 
upon the waters, and the mercies of God in sparing their 
lives, that they were not swallowed up in the sea. And 
he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise, 
which they had obtained: how merciful the Lord had been 
in warning us that we should flee out of the land of Jeru- 


oo SECOND BOOK OF NETEI. 


salem. For, bekold, said he, I have seen a vision, in whidy 
I kaów that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained: 
in Jerusalem, we should also have perished. But, said he, 
notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of 
omise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a 
and which the Lord God hath covenanted with me, should 
be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea,.the Lord 
hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children 
forever: and also all those who should be led out of ether 
countries, by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, I, Leki, 
prophesy according to thé-workings of the spirit which iy 
in me, that there shall none come into this land, save they 
shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, this 
land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And 
if it so be that they shall serve him according to the com- 
mandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of lib- 
erty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought 
down into captivity : if so, it shall be because of pay 
for if iniquity shall abound, cursed shall be the land 
their sakes; but unto the righteous, it shall be blessed for- 
ever. And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be 
kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations: for, be- 
hold, many nations would overrun the land, that there 
would be no po for an inheritance. Wherefore, I, Lehi, 
have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the 
Lord God shall bring out‘cf the land of Jerusalem, shall 
keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face 
of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, 
that they may possess this land unto themselves. And if 
it so be that they shall keep his commandments, they shall 
be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be 
none to molest them, nor to take away the land of theirin- 
heritance; and they shall dwell safely forever. But be- 
hold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in 
unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from 
the hand of the Lord: having a knowledge of.thé creation 
of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvel- 
lous works of the Lord from the oreation of the world: hav- 
ing power given them to do all things by faith; having all 
the commandments from the beginning, and having been 
brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land of 
promise; behold, I say, if the day shal come that they- 
will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their 
Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him 
that is just, shall rest upon them; yea, fe will bring other 
nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and 
he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, 


SECQQND BOOK OF NEPHI. et 


and he will cause thom to be scattered and smitten. Yoa, 
as one generation passeth to another, there shall be blood- 
sheds and groat visitations among them; wherefore, my 
sons, I would that ye would remember; yea, I would that 
ye would hearken unto my words. O that ye would awake; 
awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the sleep of hell, 
and shake off the awful chains by which ye aro bound, 
which are the chains which bind the children of men, that 
they are carried away captive down to the eternal gulf of 
misery and wo! Awake! and arise from the dust, and hear 
the words of a trembling parent, whose limbs ye must soon 
lay down in the cold and silent grave, from whence notravel- 
ler can return; a few more days, and I go the way of all 
the earth. But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul 
from hell: I have beheld his glory, and I am encircled 
about eternally in the arms of his love. And I desire that 
ye should remember to observe the statutes and the judg- 
ments of the Lord: behold, this hath been the anxiety of 
my soul, from the beginning. My heart hath heen weighed 
down with sorrow from time to time; for I have feared, 
lest for the hardness of your hearts, the Lord your God 
should come out in the fullness of his wrath upon you, that 
ye be cut off and destroyed forever; or, that a cursing 
should come upon you for the space of many generations; 
and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are hated, 
and are led according to the will and captivity of the devil. 
O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, 
but that ye might be a choice and a favored people of the 
Lord. But behold, his will be done: for his ways are right- 
eousness forever; and he hath said, that inasmuch as ye 
shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land; 
but inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments, ye 
shall be cut off from my presence. And now that my soul 
might have joy in you, and that my heart might leave this 
world with gladness because of you; that I might not be 
brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise 
from the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in 
one mind, and in one heart united in all things, that ye 
may not eome down into captivity; that ye may not bo 
cursed with a Sore cursing; and also, that ye may not in- 
cur the displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the de- 
struction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and 
body. Awake, my sons: put on the armor of righteous- 
ness. Shake off the chains with which ye are bound, and 
come forth out of obscurity, and arise from the dust. Re- 
bel no more against your brother, whose views have been 
i : 6 


@ SECOND EDO: OF NEPHI, 


orfous, and who hath kept the commandmonte from the 
time that we left Jerusalem, and who hath been an instrue 
ment in the hands of God, in bringing us forth into the land 
of promise; for were it not for him, we must have perished 
with hunger in the wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought te 
take away his life: yea, and he hath suffered much sore 
row because of you. And I exceedingly fear and tremble 
because of you, lest he shall suffer again; for behold, ye have 
secused him thathe sought power and authority over you; 
but I know thathe hath not sought for power nor authority 
over you; but he hath sought the glory of God, and your 
own eternal welfare. Andyehave mutmyred because he 
hath been plain unto you. Ye say that he hath used sharp- 
ness; ye say that he hath been angry with you. But be- 
hold, his sharpness was the sharpness of the power of 
the word of God, which was in him; and thet which ye 
call angor, was the truth, according to that which is in 
God, which he could not restrain, manifesting boldly con- 
cerning your iniquities. And it must needs be that the 

wer of God.must be with him, even unto his command- 
ing you, that ye must obey.‘ But behold, it- was not him, 
but it was the spirit of the Lord which was in him, which 
opened Iris mouth to utterance, that he could not shut it. i 

And now my son Laman and also Lemuel and Sam, and 
also my sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will 
hearken unto the voice of Nephi, ye shall not perish. And 
if ye will hearken unto him, J leave unto you a blessing, 
yea, even my first blessing. But if ye will not hearken un- 
to him, I take away my first blessing, yea, even my blesar 
ing, and it shall rest upon him. And now, Zoram, I speak 
unto you : Behold, thou art the servant of Laban; neverthe» 
less, thou hast been brought.out of the land of Jerusalem, 
and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son Nephi, 
forever. Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful, thy 
seed shall be blessed with his seed, that they dwell in pros- 

rity long upon the face of this land; and nothing, save 
it shall be iniquity among them, shall harm or disturb their 
prosperity upon the face of this land forever. Wherefore, if 
yeshall keep the commendmentsof the Lord, the Lord hath 
consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with the 
seed of myson. And now, Jacob, I speak'unto you: Thou 
att my first born in the days of my tribulation in the wil- 
derness. And behold, in thy childhood thou hast suffered 
affiictions:‘and much sorrow, because of the rudeness of thy 
brethren. Nevertheless, Jacob, my first born in the wil- 
derness, thou: knowest the greatness of God; and he shall 
consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain. Wherefore, thy 


SECOND HOOK OF NEPHL = e3 


soul shall be blessed, and thou shalt dwell safely with thy 
brother, Nephi; and thy days shall be spent in the service 
of thyGod. Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, be- 
cause of the righteousness of thy Redeemer: for thou hast 
beheld, that in the fullness of time, he cometh to bring sal- 
vation unto men. And thou hast beheld in thy youth, his 
ry; wherefore, thou art blessed even as they unto whom 

e shall minister in the flesh: forthe spirit is the same, 
esterday, to-day, and forever. And the way is prepared 
m the fall of man, and salvation is free. And men are 
instructed sufficiently, that they know good from evil. 
And the lawisgivenuntomen. And by the law, no flesh is 
justified; or, by the law, men are cut off Yea, by the tem- 
poral law, they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law 
they perish from that which is good, and become miserable 
forever. Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through 
the holy Messiah: for he is full of grace and truth. Behold, 
he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends 
of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a 
contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law 
be answered. Wherefore, how great the importance to 
make these things known unto the inhebitants of the earth, 
that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell 
in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and 
mercy, and grace of the holy Messiah, who layeth down 
his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the 
power of the spirit, that he may bring to pass the resurrec- 
tion of the dead, being the first that should rise. Where- 
fore, he is the first fruits unto God, inasmuch as he-shall 
make intercession for all the children of men; and they 
that believe in him, shall be saved, And because of the 
intercession for all, all men come unto God; wherefore, 
they stand in the presence of Him, to be judged of Him, 
according tothe truth and holiness which isin Him. Where- 
fore, the ends of the law which the Holy One hath given, un- 
to the inflicting of the punishment which is affixed, which 
unishment that is affixed is in opposition to that of the 
appiness which is affixed, to answer the ends of the atone- 
ment; for it must needs be, that thore is en opposition in 
all thinge. If not eo, my firet born in the wilderness, right- 
eousness could not be brought to pass; neither wicked- 
ness; neither holiness nor misery; neither good nor bad. 
Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; 
wherefore, if it should be one body, it must needs remain 
as dead, having no life, neither death nor corruption, nof 
incorruption, happiness nor misery, nether sense nor insen- 
sibility. Wherotore, it must needs have been created for ai 


64 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


thing of nought; wherefore, there would have been no 
purpose in the end of its creation. Wherefore, this thing 
must needs destroy the wisdom of God, and his eternal pur- 
poses; and also, the power, and the mercy, and the justice 
of God. And if ye shall say there is no lew, ye shall also 
ray there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall 
also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no 
righteousness, there be no happiness. And if there be no 
righteousness nor happiness, there be no punishment nor 
misery. And if these things are not, there isnoGod. And 
if there is no God, we are not, neither the earth, for there 
could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to 
he acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished 
away. 

And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things, for 
your profit and learning: for there is a God, and he hath 
created all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all 
ings that in themis: both things to act, and things to be 
‘acted upon; and to bring about his eternal purposes in the 
end of man, after he had created our first parents, and the 
beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all 
things which are created, it must needs be that there was 
an opposition: even the forbidden fruit in opposition tothe 
tree of life; the one. being sweet and the other bitters 
wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man, that he should 
act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for him- 
self, save it should be that he was enticed by the one or 
the other. 

And I, Lehi, according to the things whieh I have read, 
must needs suppose, that an angel of God, according to 
that which is written, had fallen from heaven; wherefore 
he became a devil, having sought that which was evi] be- 
fore God. And because he had fallen from heaven, and 
had become miserable forever, he sought also the misery 
of all mankind. Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even - 
that old serpent, who is the devil, who is the father of all 
lies; wherefore he said, partake of the forbidden fruit, and 
ye shall not die, but ye shali be as God, knowing good and 
evil, And after Adam and Eve had partaken of the for- 
bidden fruit, they were driven out of the garden of Eden, 
to till the earth. And they have brought forth children; 
yea, even the family of all the earth. And the days of the 
children of men were prolonged, according to the will of 
God, that'they might repent while in the flesh; wherefore, 
their state became a state of probation, and their time was 
lengthened, according to the commandments which the 
Lord Ged gave unto the children of men. For he gave 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI, @ 


commandment that all men must repent; for he shewed 
unto all men that they were lost, because of the trans- 
gression of their parents. And now, behold, if Adam had 
not transgressed, he would not have fallen; but he would 
have remained in the gardenof Eden. And all things which 
were created, must have remained in the same state which 
they were, after they were created; and they must have 
remained forever, and had no end. And they would have 
had nochildren; wherefore, they would have remained ina 
state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery: 
doing no geod, for they knew no sin. But behold, alk thin 
have been uone in the wisdom of him who knoweth all 
things. Adam fell, that men might be; and men are, that 
they might have joy. And the Messiah cometh in the full- 
ness of time, that he may redeem the children of men 
from the fall. And because that they are redeemed from 
the fall, they have become free forever, knowing | ote 
from evil; to act for themselves, and not to be acted up- 
on, save it be by the punishment of the law, at the 
great and last day, according tothe commandments which 
God hath given. Wherefore, men are free according to 
the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedi- 
ent unto man, And they are free to choose liberty and 
eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to 
choose eaptivity and death, et to the captivity and 
power of the devil: for he seeketh that all men might be 
miserable like unto himself. 

And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to 
the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great com- 
mandments: and be faithful unto his words, and choose 
eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit, 
and not choose eternal death, according to the will of 
the flesh, and the evil which is therein, which giveth 
the spirit of the devil power to captivate, to bring you 
down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own 
kingdom. . 

I have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, 
in the last days of my probation; and I have chosen the 
— part, according to the words of the prophet. And I 

ave none other object, save it be the everlasting welfare 
ef your souls. Amen. 


66 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


CHAPTER II. 


Axnp now I k unto you, Joseph, my last born. Thou 
wast born in the wilderness of mine afflictions; yea, in 
the days of miy greatest sorrow, did thy mother bear thee. 
And may the Lord consecrate also unto thee this land, 
which is a most precious. land, for thine inheritance and 
the inheritance of thy seed with thy brethren, for thy se- 
curity forever, if it so be that ye shall keep the command- 
ments of the Holy One of Israel. And now, Joseph, m 
Jast born, whom I have brought out of the wilderness o 
mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever, for thy 
seed shall not utterly be destroyed. For behold, thou art 
the fruit of my loins; and I am a descendent of Joseph, 
who was carried captive into Egypt. And great were 
the covenants of the Lord, which he made unto Joseph; 
wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day. And he obtained 
a promise of the Lord, that out of the fruit of his loins, 
the Lord God would raise up a righteous branch unto the 
house of Israel; not the Messia , but a branch which 
was to be broken off; nevertheless, to be remembered in 
the covenants of the Lord, that the Messiah should be 
made manifest unto them in the latter days, in the spirit 
of power, unto the bringing of them out of darkness unto 
light; yea, out of hidden darkness and out of captivity 
unto freedom. For Joseph truly testified, saying: A seer 
shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choico 
seer unto the fruit of my loins. Yea, Joseph truly said, 
thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice seer will I raise 
out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteeme 
highly among the fruit of thy loins, And unto him will 
I give commandment, that he shall doa work for the fruit 
of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be.of great worth 
unto them, even to the bringing of them tothe knowledge 
of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers. And 
I will give unto him a commandment, that he shall do none 
other work save the work which Ishall command him. And 
I will make him greatin mine eyes: for heshall domy work. 
And he shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have ssid 
I would raise up unto you, to deliver my people, O house 
of Israel. And Moses will I raise up, to deliver thy peo- 
ple out of the land of Egypt. But a seer will I raise up 
out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto him will I give 
power to bring forth my word unto the seed of thy loins; 
and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith the 
Lord, but to the convincing them of my word, which shall 
have already gone forth among them. Wherefore, the 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 67 


fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit of the loins of 
Judah shall write; and that which shall be written by the 
fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by 
the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto 
the confounding of false doctrines, and laying down of 
contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy 
loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of their fath- 
ers in the latter days; and also to the knowledge of m 

covenants, saith the Lord. And out of weakness he shall 
be made strong, in that day when my work shall com- 
mence among all my people, unto the restoring thee, O 
house of Israel, saith the Lord. And thus prophesied Jo- 
seph, saying: Behold, that seer will the Lord bless; and 
they that seek to destroy him, shall be confounded: for 
this promise, of which I have obtained of the Lord, of the 
fruit of thy loins, shall be fulfilled. Behold Iam sure of the 
fulfilling of this promise. And his name shall be called 
after me; and it shall be after the name of his father.— 
And he shall be like unto me; for the thing which the 
Lord shall bring forth . by his hand, by the power of the 
Lord shall bring my people unto salvation; yea, thus proph- 
esied Joseph, I am‘sure of this thing, even as I am sure 
of the promise of Moses: forthe Lord hath said unto me, 
I will preserve thy seed forever. And the Lord hath said, 
I will raise up a Moses; and I will give power unto himin a 
rod; and I will give judgment unto him in writing. Yet 
I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak much: for 
Iwill not make him mighty in speaking. But I will 
write unto him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; 
and I wili make a spokesman forhim. And the Lord said 
unto me also, I will raise up unto the fruit of thy loins: 
and I will make for him a spokesman. And I, behold, I 
will give unto him, that he shall write the writing of the 
fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the 
spokesman of thy loins shall declare it. And the words 
which he shall write, shall be the words which are expe- 
dient in my wisdom, should go forth unto the fruit of thy 
loins. And it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried 
unto them fromthe dust; forI know their faith. Andthe 

shall ery from the dust; yea, even repentance unto their 
brethren, even after many generations have gone by them. 
And it shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even accor- 
ding to the simpleness of their words. Because of their faith, 
their words shall proceed forth out of my mouth unto their 
brethren, whoare the fruit of thyloins; and the weaknessof 
their words will I make strong in their faith, unto the re- 
membering of my covenant which I made unto thy fathem. 


8&8 | SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.. 


And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner dia 
my father of old prophesy. Wherefore, because of this 
covenant thou art blessed: for thy seed shall not be des- 
troyed, for they shall hearken unto the words of the book. 
And there shall raise up one mighty among them, who 
shall do much good, both in word and in deed, being an 
instrument in the hands of God, with exceeding faith, to 
work mighty wonders, and do that thing which is great 
in the sight of God, unto the bringing to pass much restore 
ation unto the house of Israel, and unto the seed of thy 
brethren. And now, blessed at thou, Joseph. Behold, 
thou art little; wherefore, hearken unto the words of th 
brother Nephi, and it shall be done unto thee, even accord~ 
ing to the words which I have spoken. , Remember the 
words of thy dying father. Amen. 


t > Qa 


CHAPTER III. 


` AnD now I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of 
which my father hath spoken, concerning Jeseph, who 
was carried into Egypt: For behold, he truly prophesied 
concerning all his seed. And the prophecies which he 
wrote, there are not many greater. And he pro hesied 
concerning us, and our future generations; an ther are 
written upon the plates of brass. Wherefore, after my fath- 
er had made an end of. speaking concerning the prophecies 
of Joseph, he called the children of Laman, his sons, and 
his daughters, and said unto them, behold my sons, and 
my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my 
first born, I would that ye should give ear unto my words: 
for the Lord God hath said, that inasmuch as ye shall keep 
my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land; and in- 
asmuch as ye will not keep my commandments, ye shall be 
cut off from my presence. But behold, my sons and my 
daughters, I cannot go down to my grave, save I showld 
leave a blessing upon you: For behold, I know that if ye 
sre brought up in the way ye should go, ye will hot depart 
fromit. Wherefore, if ye are cursed, behold, I leave my 
blessing upon you, that the cursing may be taken from 
wn and be answered upon the heads of your parents.— 
herefore, because of my blessing, the Lord God will 
not suffer that ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be mer- 
ciful unto you, and unto your seed forever. 
And it came to pass that after my father had made an eng 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPRI. 69 


of speaking to the sons and daughters of Laman, he caused 
the sons and daughters of Lemuel to be brought before 
him. And he spake unto them, seying: Behold, my sone 
and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of 
mv second son; behold, I leave unto you the same blessing 
which I left unto the sons and daughters of Laman; 
wherefore, thou shalt not utterly be destroyed; but in the 
end thy seed shall be blessed. 

And it came to pass that when my fatherhad madean end 
of speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto the sons of 
Ishmael, yea, and even all his household. And after’ he 
had made an end of speaking unto them, he spake unto 
Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy seed: for thou 
shalt inherit the land, like unto thy brother Nephi. And 
thy seed shall be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt 
be even like unto thy brother, and thy seed like unto his 
seed; and thou shalt be blessed in all thy days. 

And it came to after my father Lehi had spoken 
unte all his household, according to the feelings of his heart, 
and the spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed 
eld. And it came to pass that he died, and was buried, 

And it came to pass that not many days after his death, 
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, were an 
with me because of the admonitions of the Lord: for I, 
‘Nephi, was constrainéd to speak unto them, according to 
his word. For I had spake many things unto them, and 
also my father, before his death; many of which sayings, 
are written upon mine other plates: for amore history part 
are written upon mine other plates. And upon these, I 
write the things of my soul, and many of the scriptures 
which are engraven upon the plates of brass: For my 
soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth 
them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of 
my children. Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of 
the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the 
things which I have seen and heard. Nevertheless, the 
great goodness of the Lord, in shewing me his great and 
marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth, O wretched man 
that I am; yee, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh. 
My soul grieveth because of minée iniquities. I am en- 
compassed about because of the temptations and the sins 
which doth so easily beset me. And when I desire to re- 
joice, my heart groaneth| because of my sins; neverthe- 

ess, I know in whom I have trusted. My God hath been 
my support; he hath ted me sake mine afflictions in the 
wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters of 
the greatdeep. He hath filled me with his love, even un- 


70 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


tathe consuming of my fiesh. He hath confounded mine am- 
emies, unto the causing of them to quake before me. Be 
hold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me 
knowledge by visions in the night time. And by day have 
I waxed bold in mighty prayer before him; yea, my voice 
have I sent up on high; and angels camo down and minis- 
tered unto me. And upon the wings of his spirit hath 
my body been carried away upon exceeding high moun- 
tains. And mine eyes have beheld great things; yea, 
even too great for man; therefore I was bidden that I should 
not write them. O then, If I have seen so great things; 
if the Lord in his condescension unto the children of men, 
bath visited men in so much mercy, why should my heart 
weep, and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my 
flesh waste away, and a strength slacken, because of 
mine afflictions? And why should I yield to sin, because 
of my flesh? Yea, why should í give way to temptations, 
that the evil onc have place in my heart, to destroy m 

peace and afflict my soul? Why am I angry because of 
mine enemy? Awake, my soul! No longer droop in sin. 
Rejoice O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy 
of mysoul. Do not anger again, because of mine enemies. 
Do not slacken my strength, because of mine afflictions, 
Rejoice,O my heart, and cry unto the Lord, and say, O 
Lord, I will praise thee forever; yea, my soul will rejoice 
in thee, my God, and the rock of my salvation. O Lord, 
wilt thou redeem my soul? Wilt thou deliver me out of 
the hands of mine enemies? Wilt thou make me that I 
may shake at the appearance of sin? May the gates of 
hell be shut continually before me, because that my heart 
is broken and my spirit is contrite? O Lord, wilt thou not 
shat the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I may 
walk in the path of the low valley, that I may be strict -in 
the plain road? O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in 
the robe of thy righteousness? O Lord, wilt thou make a 
way for mine escape before mine enemies? Wilt thou 
mako my path straight before me? Wilt thou not place 
a stumbling block in my way? But that thou wouldest 
clear my way before me, and noege not up my way, but 
the ways of mine enemy, O Lord I have trusted in thee 
and I will trust in thee forever. I will not put my trust in 
the arm of flesh : for I know that cursed aho that putteth 
his trust in the arm of flesh. Yea, cursed ishe that putteth 
his trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm. Yea, I know 
that God will give liberally to him that asketh. Yea, m 

God will give me, if I ask not amiss: therefore I will lift 
up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI ti 


the rock óf my rightcousnces. Behold, my voiee shall 
forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine: everlast- 
ing God. Amen. 


—2+Oo— 


CHAPTER IV. 


— 
Bryon, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much un- 
tothe Lord my God, because of the anger of my brethren, 
But behold, their anger did increase against me; insomuch 
that they did seek to take away my life. Yea, they did 
murmur against me, saying. Our younger brother thinks 
to rule over us; and we have had: much trial because of 
him; wherefore, now let us slay him, that we may not be 
afflicted more because of his words. For behold, we will 
not have him to be our ruler: for it belongs unto us, who 
are the elder brethren, to rule over this people. Now I do 
not write upon these plates, all the words which they mur- 
mured against mo. But it sufficeth me to say, that they 
did seek to take away my life. | 
And it came to pass that the Lord did watn me, that I, 
Nephi, should depart from them, and’ flee into the wilder- 
nees, and all those who would go with me. Wherefore, it 
came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and also 
Zoram and his family, and Sam, mime elder brother, and 
his family, and Jacob, and Joseph, my younger brethren, 
and also my sisters, and all those who would go with me. 
And ali those who would go with me, were those who be- 
lieved in the warnings and the revelations of God; where- 
fore, they did hearken unto my words. And we did take 
our tents and whatsoever things were possible for us, and 
did journey in the wilderness for the space of many daya. 
And after we had journeyed for the space of many days, 
we did pitch ourtents. And my people would that we should 
call the name of the place Nephi: wherefore, we did call 
it Nephi. And all those who were with me, did take upon 
them to call themselves the people of Nephi. And we did 
observe to keep the judgments, and the statutes, and the 
commandments. of the Lord, in all things, according to the 
law of Moses. And the Lord was with us; and we did 
prosper exceedingly: for we did sow weed, and we did rea 
again in abundance. And we began to raise flocks, an 
herds, and animals of every kind. And I, Nephi, had also 
brought the revords which were engraven upon the plates 
of brass: end also the ball, or compass, which was prepared 


T2 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


for my father, by the hand of the Lord, according to that 
whic ae written. 3 5 d 

And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedi 
ly, and to multi b in the land. And L Nephi, did take 
the sword of Laban, and after the manner of it did make 
many swords, lest by any means the people who were now 
called Lamanites, should come upon us and destroy us: for 
I knew their hatred towards me and my children, and those 
who were called my people. And I did teach my ined 
to build buildings: and to work in all manner of wood, 
and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and of steel, and 
of gold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which were in 

eat abundance. And I, Nephi, did build-a temple; and 
Faia construct it after the manner of the temple of Solo- 
mon, save it were not built of so many precious things: for 
they were not to be found upon the land; wherefore, it 
could not be built like unto Solomon’s temple, But the 
manner of the construction was like unto the temple of 
Solomon; andthe — was exceeding fine. 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my P le 
to be industrious, and to labor with their hands. And it 
came to pass that they would that I should be their king. 
But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king; 
nevertheless, I did for them according to thet which was 
in m wer. And behold, the words of the Lord had been 
fulfilled unto my brethren, which he spake concerning 
them, that I should be their ruler and their teacher; where- 
fore, I had been their ruler and their teacher, according to 
the commandments of the Lord, until the time they sought 
to take away my life. Wherefore, the word of the Lord 
was fulfilled which he spake unto me, saying: That inas- 
much as they will not bearken unto thy words, they shall 
be cut off from the presence of the Lord. And behold, they 
were cut off from his presence. And he hed caused the 
cursing to come upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, be- 
cause of their iniquity. For behold, they had hardened 
their hearts against him, that they had become like untoa 
flint; wherefore, as they were white, and exceeding fair 
and delightsome, that they might not be enticing unto my 
people, the Lord God did cause a skin of blackness to come 
upon them. And thus saith the Lord God, I will cause 
that they shall be loathsome unto thy people, save they 
shall repent of their iniquities. And cursed shall be the 
seed of him that mixeth with their seed: for they shall be 
cursed even with the same cursing. And the Lord spake 
it, and it wasdone. And because of their cursing which 
was upon them, they did become en idle people, full of 


SROOMD POOK OF MEPHI, V 


mischief and subtlety, and did seek in the wilderness for 
beasts of prey. And the Lord God said unto me, they shall 
be e scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in remembrance 
of me; and inasmuch as they will not remember me, and 
hearken unto my words, they shall scourge them even unte 
destruction. i 

And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did consecrate Jacob 
and Joseph, that they should be priests and teachers over 
the land of my people. And it came to pase that we lived 
after the manner of happiness. And thirty years had pase 
ed away from the time we left Jerusalem. And I, Nephi, 
had kept the records upon my platds, which I had made of 
my people, thus far. 

And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me, 
make other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things 
upon them which are good in my sight, for the profit of thy 
people. Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the com- 
mandments of the Lord,.went and made these plates upon 
which I have engraven these things. And I engraved that 
which is pleasing unto God. And if my people are pleased 
with the things of God, — will be pleased with mine 
engravings which are upon these plates. And if my peo- 
ple desire to know the more peeucua par: of the histo 
of my people, they must seerch mine other plates. And it 
sufficeth me to say, that forty yeara had passed away, and 
we had already had wats and contentions with our brethren. 


—+o— 
CHAPTER V. 


~ Tue words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which he 
spake unto the people of Nephi: Behold, my beloved 
brethren, I, Jacob, having been called of God, and ordain- 
ed after the manner of his holy order, and having been con- 
secrated by my brother, Nephi, unto whem ye look as a 
king ora protector, and on whom ye depend for safety, 
behold, ye know that I have spoken unto you exceenne 
— things: nevertheless, I speak unto you again; for 
am desirous for the welfare of your souls. Yea, mine anxiety 
is great for you: and ye yourselves know that it ever has 
been. For i have exhorted you with all diligence; and I 
have taught you the words of my father; and I have spoken 
unto you — all things which are. written, from the 
ereation of the world. 


? 


74 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


` And now, behold, I would speek unto you conceming’ 
things which are, and’which are to come; wherefore, 
will read youthe words of Isaiah. And they are the words 
which my brother hae desired that I should speak unto you. 
And I speak unto you for your sakes, that ye may learn 
and glonfy the name of your God. And now, the words 
which I shall read, are they which Isaiah spake concernin 
all the house of Israel; wherefore, they may be likene 
unto you; for ye are of the house of Israel. And there are 
many things which have been spoken by Isaiah, which ma 


‘be likened unto you, because ye are of the house of Israel. 


And now, these are the words: Thus saith the ‘Lord 
God: Behold, I will lift ap mine hand to the Gentiles, and 
set up my standard to the people; and they shalt bring thy 
sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon, 
their shoulders. And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, 
and their queens thy nursing mothers: they shall bow down 
to thee with their faces towards the earth, and lick up the 
dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord: 
for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me. 

And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning 
these words: For behold, the Lord has shewn me that 
those who were at Jerusalem, from whence we came, have 
been slain and carried away captive; nevertheless, the 
Lord has shewn unto me that they should return again. 
And he also has shewn unto me, that the Lord God, the 
Holy One of Israel, should manifest himself unto them in 
the flesh; and after he should manifest himself, they should 
scourge him and crucify him, according to the words of 
the angel, who spake it unto me. And after they have 
hardened their hearts and stiffened their necks against the 
Holy One of Israel, behold, the judgments of the oly One © 
of Israel shall come upon them. And the day cometh that 
they shall be smitten and afflicted. Wherefore, after they 
are driven fo and fro, for thus saith the angel, many shall 
be afflicted in the flesh and shall not be aufered to perish, 
because of the prayers of the faithful, they shall be scat- 
tered, and smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the Lord will 
be merciful unto them, that when they shall come to the 
knowledge of their Redeemer, they shall be gathered to- 
gether again to the lands of théir inheritance. 

And blessed are the Gentiles, they of whom the prophet 
has written: for behold, if it so be that they shall repent 
and fight not against Zion, and do not unite themselves to 
that great and abominable church, they shall be saved: for 
the Lord God will fulfil his covenants which he has made 
unto his children: and for thie cause the prophet has writ- 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 75 


ten these things. Wherefore, they that fight against Zion 
and the covenant people of the Lord, shall lick up the dust 
of their feet; and the people of the Lord shall not be ashame 
ed. For the people of the-Lord are they who wait for him: 
for they still wait for the coming of the Messieh. And be- 
hold, according to the words of the prophet, the Messiah 
will set himself again the sccond time; to recover them: 
wherefore, he will manifcst himself unto them in power 
and great glory, unto the destruction of their enemies, when 
that day cometh when they shall believe in him; and none 
will he destroy that believe in him. And they that believe 
not in him, shall be destroyed, both by fire, and by tem» 
pest, and by earthquakes, and by bloodsheds, and by pos- 
tilence, and by famine. And they shall know that the Lord 
ia God, the Holy One of Israel: for shall the prey be taken 
from the mighty, or the lawful captive delivered? But thus 
saith the Lord: Even the captives of the mighty shall be 
taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; 
for the mighty God chall deliver his covenant people. For 
thus saith the Lord: I will contend with them that con- 
tendeth with thee, and I will feed them that oppress, thee, 
with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their 
own blood, as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall know 
that I the Lord am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the migh- 
ty One of Jacob. Yea, for thus saith the Lord: Have I 
put thee away, or have: cast thee off forever? For thus 
gaith the Lord: Whereis the bill-of your mother’s divorce- 
ment? To whom have I put thee away, or to which of my 
creditors have I sold you? Yea, to whom have I sold you? 
Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for 
your transgressions is your mother put away; wherefore, 
when I came, there was noman: when Í called, yea, there 
was none to answer. 

O House of Israel, is my hand shortened at all that it 
cannot redeem, or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at 
my rebuke, I dry up the sea, I make their rivers a wilder- 
ness and their fish to stink, because the waters are dried 
up; and they die because of thirst. I clothe the heavens 
with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering. The 
Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I 
should know how to speak a word in season unto thee, 
House of Israel. When ye are weary, he waketh mornin 
hv morning. He waketh mine ear to hear as the learned, 
The Lord God hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebel- 
lious, neither turned away back. I gave my back to the 
smiter, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the haiz. 
Ihid not my face from shame and spitting, for the Lord 


76 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


' God will help me: therefore shalt I not be confounded. 
Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that 
I shall not be ashamed; and the Lord is near, and he jūs- 
tifieth me. Who will contend with me? let us stand to- 
gether. Who is mine adversary? let him come near me, 
and I will smite him with the strength of my mouth: for 
the Lord God will help me. And all they who shall con- 
demn me, behold, all they shall wax old as a garment, and 
the moth shall eat them up. 

. Who is among you that feareth the Lord: that obeyeth 
the voice of his servant: that walketh in darkness, and 
hath no tight? Behold, all ye that kindle fire, that com- 
paes yourselves about with sparks, walk in the light of 
your fire, and in the sparks which ye have kindled. This 
shall ye have of mine hand: Ye shall lie down in sorrow. 
Hearken unto me, ye that follow after righteousness: 

unto the rock from whence ye are hewn, and to the hole 
of the pit from whence ye are digged. Look unto Abra- 
ham, your father, and unto Sarah, she thet bare you: for 
I called him alone, and blessed him. For the Lord shall 
comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and 
he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like 
the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found 
therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. Hearken 
unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation: 
for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judg- 
ment to rest for a light for the people. My righteousness 
is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arm shail 
judge the people. The isles shall wait upon me, and on 
mine arm shali they trust. Lift up your eyes to the hea- 
vens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens 
shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old 
like a garment: and they that dwell therein, shall die in 
like manner. But my salvation shall be forever: and my 
righteousness shall not be abolished. 

Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the péo- 
ple in whose heart I have written my law: fear ye not the 
reproach of men: neither be ye afraid of their revilings; 
for the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and ne 
worm shall eat them like wool. Bat my righteousness shall 
be forever; and my salvation from generation to genera- 
tion. 

Awake, awake! Put on strength O arm of the Lord: 
awake asin the ancient days. Art thou not he that hath cut 
Rahab, and wounded the dragon? Art thou not he who 
hath dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath 
made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pess 


ECOND BOOK OF NEPEI. T7 


over? Therefore, the redeemed of the Lord shall return, 
pnd come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy and 
holiness shall be upou their heads; and they shali obtain 
ladness and joy: sorrow and mourning shall flee away.’ 
iam he; yea, I am he that comforteth you: Behold, who 
art thou, that thou shouldegt be afraid of man, who sha 
die, and of the Son of man, who shall be made like unto 
; and forgetest the Lord thy maker, that hath stretch- 
ed forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earths 
and hast feared continually every day, because of the fur 
of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? And 
where is the fury of the oppressor? The captive exile has- 
teneth, that he may be loosed, and that he should not die 
in the pit, nor that his bread should fail. But I am the 
Lord thy God whose. waves roared: the Lord of Hosts is 
my name. And I have put my words in thy mouth, and 
have covered thee in the shadow of mine hand, that I may 
plant the heavens and lay the foundations of the earth, and 
say unto Zion, Behold, thou art my people. Awake, awake, 
stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand of 
the Lord the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs 
of the cup of trembling rung out; and none to guide‘her 
among all the sons she hath brought forth; neither that 
taketh her by the hand, of all the sons she hath brought 
up. These two sons are come unto thee; who shall be 
sorry for thee: thy desolation and destruction, and the fam- 
ine and the sword: And by whom shail I comfort thee? 
Thy sons have fainted, save these two: they lie at the head 
of all the streets, as a wild bull in a net: they are full of 
the fary of the Lord, the rebuke of thy God. 

Therefore, hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, 
and not with wine: thus saith thy Lord, the Lord and thy 
God pleadeth the cause of his people, behold, f have taken 
out of thine hand the cup of trembling, the dregs of the 
cup of my fury; thou shalt no more drink it again. But 
I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee; who 
have said to thy soul, Bow down, that we may go over; 
and thou hast laid thy body as the ground, and as the street 
to them that went over. 

Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy 
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for hence- 
forth there shall no more come into thee, the uncircumcis- 
ed and the unclean. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, . 
sit down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy 
neck, O captive daughter of Zion. 


oS. 


A SECOND BOOK OF NEPEI: 
a CHAPTER VI. 


AND now, my beloved brethren, I have read these cing 
that ye might know concerning the covenants of the Lord ; 
that he has covenented with all the house of Israel; that 
ke has spoken unto the Jews, by the mouth of his holy 
prophets, even from the beginning down, from generation 
to generation, until the time comes that they shall be re- 
stored to the true church and fold of God; when they shall 
be gathered home to the’lands of their inheritance, an 
shall be established in all their lands of promise. 

Behold, my beloved brethren, I speak unte you these. 
things that ye may rejoice, and lift up your heads forever,- 
because of the blessings which the Lord God shall bestow 
upon your children. For I know that ye have searched 
much, many of you, to know of things to come; where- 
fore I know that ye know that our flesh must waste awa 
and die; nevertheless, in our bodies we shall sep God. 
Yea, I know that ye know, thatin the body he shall show 
himself unto those at Jerusalem, from whence we came; 
for it is expedient that it should be among them; for it be- 
hoveth the great Creator that he sufforeth himself to be- 
come subject unto man in the flesh, and die for all men, 
that all men might become subject untohim. Forasdeath 
hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful plan of the 
great Creator, there must needs be a power of resurrection, 
and the resurrection must needs come unto man by reason 
of the fall; and the-fall came by reason of transgression ; 
and because man became fallen, they were cut off from 
the presence of the Lord; wherefore, it must needs be an 
infinite atonement; save it should be an infinite atonement, 
this corruption could not put on incorruption. Wherefore, 
the first judgment which came upon man, must needs have 
remained to an endless duration. And if so, this flesh 
must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother 
earth, to rise no more. 

O the wisdom of God! his mercy and grace! For be- 
hold, if the flesh should rise no more, our spirits must be- 
come subject to that angel who fell from before the pres- 
ence of the eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no 
more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, 
and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out 
from the presence of our God, and to remain with the fa- 
ther of lies, in misery, like unto himself: yea, to that bein 
who beguiled our first parents; who transformeth himsel 
nigh unto an angel of light, and stireth up the children of 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 79 


men unto secret combinations of murder, ahd all manner 
of secret works of darkness. 

O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a 
way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monsters 
yoa, that monster, death and hell, which I call the death 
of the body, and also the death of the spirit. And because 
of the way of deliverance of eur God, the Holy One of Is- 
rael, this death, of which I have spoken, which is the tem- 
poral, shall deliver up its dead: which death is the grave. 
And this-death of which I have epoken, which is the spir- 
itual death, shal! deliver up its dead; which spiritual death 
ishell; wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their 
dead, and hell must deliver up its captive spirits, and the 
grave must deliver up its captive bodies, and the bodies 
and the spirits of men will be restored, one to the other; 
We it is by the power of the resurrection of the Holy One 


O how great the plan of our God! For on the other hand, 
the paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the right- 
eous, and the grave deliver up the body of the righteous; 
and the spirit and the body is restored to itself again, and 
all men become incorruptible, and immortal, and they are 
living souls, having a perfect knowledge like unto us, in 
the flesh; save it be that our knowledge shall be pei 
wherefore, we shall have a perfect knowledge of all our 
guilt, and our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the 
righteous shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoy- 
ment, and their righteousness, being clothed with purity, 
yea, even with the robe of righteousness. ; 

And it shall come to pass, that when all men shall have 

ed from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have 
ecome immortal, they must appear before the judgment 
seat of the Holy One ôf Israel; and then cometh the judg- 
ment; and then must they be judged according to the holy 
judgment of God. And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for 
the Lord God hath spoken it, and it is his eternal word, 
which cannot pase away, that they who are righteous, shall 
be righteous still, and they who are filthy, shall be filthy 
still; wherefore, they who are filthy, are the devil and his 
angels; and they shall go away into everlasting fire, pre- 
paed for them; and their torment is as a lake of fire and ~ 
rimstone, whose flames ascendeth up forever and ever; 
and has no end, ` 

O the greatness and the justice of our God! For he ex- 
ecuteth all his words, and they have gone forth out of his 
mouth, and his law must be fulfilled. But, behold, the 
righteous, the saints of the Holy One of Isracl, they who 


W SRCOND BOOK OF NEPHL 


have believed in the Holy One of Israel; they who have 
endured the crosses of the-world, and despised the shante 
ofit; they shall inherit the kingdom of God, which was 
prepated for them from the foundation of the world; aad 
their joy shall be full forever. — 

O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One 
of Israel! For he delivereth his saints from that awful 
monster’ the devil, and death and hell, and that lake of fire 
and brimstone, which is endless torment. . 

O how great the holiness of our God! For heknoweth 
all things, and there is not any thing, save he knows it. 
And he cometh into the world that he may save all men, - 
if they will hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffer- 
eth the pains of all men; yea, the pains of every livin 
creature, both men, women and children, who belong to 
the family of Adam; And he suffereth this, that the resur- 
réction might pass upon all men, that all might stand before 
him, at the great and judgment ek And he commandeth 
all men that they must repent, and be baptized in his name, 
having perfect faith in the Holy One of israel, or they can- 
mot be saved in the kingdom of God. And if they will not 
repent and believe in his name, and be baptized in his 
name, and endure to the end, they must be damned; for 
the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has spoken it; where- 
fore he has given a law; and where there is no law given, 
there is no punishment; and where there is np punishment, 
there is no condemnation; and where thereis no condem~ 
nation, the mercies of the Holy One of Israel have claim 
upon them, because of the atonement: for they are deliv- 
ered by the power of him: for the atonement satisfieth the 
demands of his — upon all those who have not the law 
given to them, that they are delivered from that awful mon- 
ster, death and hell, and the devil; atid the lake of fire and 
brimstone, which is endless torment; and they are restored 
to that God who gave them breath, which is the Holy One 
of Israel. 

But wo unto him that has the law given; yea, that hag 
all the commandments ef God, like unto us, and that trans- 

esseth them, and that wasteth the days of his probation ; 

r awful is his state! í 

© that cunning plan of the evil one! O the vainness, 
and the frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they 
are learned, they think they are wise, and they hearken 
not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposin 
they know of themselves; wherefore, their wisdom is fool- 
ishnees, and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish, 

But to be learned’ is good, if they hearken unto the coun. 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI, St 


aels of God, But wo unto the rich, who are rich as to the 
things of the world. For because they are rich, they dog- 
pise the poor, and they persecute the meek, and their hearte 
are upon their treasures: wherefore their treasure is theit 
God. And behold, their treasure shall perish with them 
also, And wo unto the deaf, that will not here: for they 
shall perish. Wo unto the blind, that will not see: for 
they shall perish also. Wo unto the uncireumcised of 
heart: for à knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them 
atthe last day. Wo unto the-liar: for he shall be thrust 
down to hell. Wo unto the murderer, who deliberatel 
killeth : for he shall die. Wo unto them who commi 
whoredoms; for they shall be thruet down to hell. Yea, 
we unto those that Worship idols: for the devil of all dev- 
ils delighteth in them. And, in fine, wo untoall those who 
die in their sins; for they shall return to God, and behold 
his face, and remain in their. sins. 

Q, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in 
trandgressing against that holy God, and also the awfulness 
of yielding to the enticings of that cunning one. Re- 
member, to be carnally minded, is death, and to be spirit- 
ually minded, is life eternal. 

O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words. Remem- 
ber the greatness of the Holy One of Israel. Do not say 
that I have Ta hard things against you; for if ye do, 
ye will revile against the truth: for I have spoken the 
words of your Maker. I know that the words of truth are 
hard against all uncleanness; but the righteous fear them 
not, for they love the truth, and are not shaken. 

O then, my beloved brethren, come unto the Lord, the 
Holy One. Remember that his paths are righteous. Be- 
hold, the way for man is narrow, but it lieth in a straight 
course before him, and the keeper of the gate is the Holy 
One of Isreel: and he employeth no servant there; and 
there is none other way, save it be by the gate, forhe can- 
not be deceived; for the Lord God is his name. And 
whoeo knocketh, to him, will he open;. and the wise, and 
the learned, and they that are rich, who are puffed up bo- 
eause of their learning, and their wisdom, and their rich- 
es; yea, they are they, whom he despiseth; and save they 
shall cast these things away, and consider themselves fools 
before God, and come down in the depths of humility, he 
will not open unto them. But the things of tho wise and 
the prudent, shall be hid from them forever; yea, that hap- 
pinen which is prepared for the saints. O my beloved 

tethren, remember my words: Behold, I take off m 
garments and I shake them before you: I pray the G 


v 


X 


82 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


of.my salvation that he view me with his Fe 
eye; wherefore, ye shall know at the last day, when a 
men shall be judged of. their works, that the God of Isra- 
el did witness that I shook your iniquities from, my soul 
and that I stand with brightness before him, and am rid of 
your blood. | 
O my beloved brethren, turnaway from yoursins; shake 
off the chains ofhim that would bind you fast; come un- 
to that God who istherock of yoursalvation. Prepare your 
souls for that glorious day, when justice shall be adminis- 
tered untothe righteous; even the day of judgment, that ye 
may not shrink with awful fear; that yemay not remember 
your awful guiltin perfectness and be constrained to exclaim, 
oly, holy are thy judgments, O Lord God Almighty. But 
I know my guilt; I transgressed thy law, and my trans- 
gressions are mine; and the devil had obtained me, that I 
am a prey to his awful misery. But behold, my brethren, 
is it expedient that [should awake you to an awful reality of 
these things? Would'I harrow up your souls, if ‘your 
minds were pure? Would I be plain unto you according to 
the plainness of the truth, if ye were freed from sin? Be- 
hold, if ye were holy, I would speak unto you of holiness; 
but as ye are not holy, and ye look upon me.as a teach- 
er, it must needs be expedient that I teach you the con- 
seqences of sin. Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and my 
heart delighteth in righteousness; and I will praise the 
holy name of my God. Come, my brethren, every one that 
thirsteth, come ye to the waters; and he that hath no mo- 
ney, come buy and eat: yea, come buy wine and milk 
without money and without price. Wherefore, do not 
spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your la- 
bor for that which cannot satisfy. Hearken diligently un- 
to me, remember the words which I have spoken; and 
come unto the Holy One of Israel, and feast upon that 
which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted, and let 
your soul delightin fatness: Behold, my beloved brethren, 
remember the words of your God; pray unto him contin- 
ually by day, and give thanks unto his holy name by night. 
Let your hearts rejoice, and behold how great the cove- 
nants of the Lord, and how great his eondescensions unto 
the children of men; and because of his greatness, and his 
grace and mercy, he has promised unto us that our seed shall 
not utterly be dearroyed, according to the flesh, but that he 
would preserve them: and in future generations, they shall 
become a righteous branch unto the house of Israel, | 
And now, my brethren, [ would speak unto you more; but 





SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 83 


on the morrow I will declare unto you the remainder of my 
words. Amen. 


— Oe 


CHAPTER VII. 


AND now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved 
brethren, concerning this righteous branch of which I have 
spoken. For behold, the promises which we have obtain- 
ed, are promisos unto us according to the flesh; wherefore, 
as it has been shown unto me that many of our children 
shall perish in the. flesh, because of unbelief, nevertheless 
God will be merciful unto many; and our children shall 
be restored, that they may come to that which will give 
them the true knowledge of their Redeemer. Wherefore, 
ae I said unto you, it must needs be expedient that Christ 
(for in the last night the angel spake unto me that this 
should be his name,) should come among the Jews, 
among those who are the more wicked part of the 
world; and they shall crucify him: For thus it behooveth 
our God; and there is none other nation on earth that 
would crucify their God. For should the mighty miracles 
þe wrought among other nations, they would repent, and 
know that he be their God; but because of priest-crafts 
and iniquities, they at Jerusalem will: stiffen their necks 
against him, that he be crucified. Wherefore, because of | 
their iniquities, destructions, famines, pestitences and 
bloodsheds, shall come upon them; and they who shall 
not be destroyed, shall be scattered among all nations. 

But behold, thua saith the Lord God: When the day 
cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then’ 
have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restor- 
ed in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the landsof their inheri- 
tance. And it shall come to pass that they shall be gath- 
ered in from their long dispersion from the isles of the sea, 
end from the four parts of the earth; and the nationsof the 
Gentiles shall be great in the eyes of me, saith God, in carry- 
ing them forth to the lands of their inheritance. Yea, the 
kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and 
their queens shall become nursing mothers; wherefore the 
promises of the Lord are great unto the Gentiles, for he hath 
spoken it, and who can dispute? But behold, this land, 

saith God, shall be a land of thine inheritance; and the Gen- 
tiles shall be blessed upon the land. And thisland shall be 
a land of liberty unto the Gentiles: and there shall be no 


m '  SRCOND BOOK OF NEPHI 


kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 
And I will fortify this land against all other nations; and 
he that fighteth against Zion, shall perish, saith God: for 
he that raiseth up a king against me, shall perish. For I 
the Lord, the King of heaven, will be their king; and I 
will be alight unto them forever, that hear my words. 
Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may be ful- 
filled, whith I have made unto the children of men, that 
I will do unto them while they are in the flesh, I must needs 
destroy the secret works of darkness, and of murders, and 
of abominations; wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion 
both Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both -male 
and female, shail perish: for they are they who are the 
whore of all the earth: for they-who are not for me, ara 
ainst me, saith our God. For I will fulfil my promises 
which I have made unto the children of men, that I will 
do unto them while they are inthe flesh. Wherefore, my 
beloved brethren, thus saith our God: I will afflict thy seed 
by the hand of the Gentiles, nevertheless, I will sof- 
ten the hearts of the Gentiles, that they shall be like un- 
to a father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be 
blessed and numbered among the house of Israel.—~ 
Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed and 
they who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for 
the land of their inheritance: For it:is a choice land 
eaith God unto me, above all other lands: wheréfore, I 
will have all men.that dwell thereon, that they shall wor- 
ship me, saith God. . i l 
nd now, my. beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful 
God has given us so great knowledge concerning these 
things, let us remember him, and lay aside our sins, and 
not hang down our heads, for we are not cast off: nevcr- 
theless, we have been driven out of the land of our inheri- 
tance; but we have been led to a better land: for the Lord 
has made the sea our path, and we are upon an isle of the 
bea. But great are the — of the Lord unto they who 
are upon the isles of the sea;. wherefore, as it says isles, 
there must needs be more than this; and they are inhabi- 
ted also by our brethren. For behold, the Lord God has 
led away from time to time from the:house of Israel, ac- 
cording to his will and pleasure. And now, behold, the 
Lord remembereth all they who have been broken off; 
wherefore, he remembereth us also. Therefore cheer up 
your hearts, and remember that yeare free to act for your- 
selves; to chogse the way of everlasting death, or the way 
of eternal life. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, reeoncile 
‘yourselves to the will of God, and not to the will of the 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. $5 


davil-and the flesh : and remember after ye are reconciled 
unto God, that it is only in and through the grace of God 
that ye are saved. Wherefore, may God raise you from 
death, by the power of the resurrection, and also from ev- 
erlasting death, by the power of the atonement, that ye may 
be received into the eternal kingdom of God, that ye may 
praise him through grace divine. Amen. 


mo Ome - 


- CHAPTER VIII. 


Anp now Ja¢ob spake many more things to my people at 
that time; nevertheless, only these things have | caused to 
bewritten; forthe things-which I have written sufficeth me. 

And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of Isaiah: 
for my soul delighteth in his words. For I will liken his 
words unto my people; and I will send them forth unto all 
my children: for he verily saw my Redeemer, even as I 
have seen him. And my brother Jacob also, has seen him 
as have seen him; wherefore, I will send their words 
forth unto my children, to prove unto them that my words 
are true, Wherefore, by the words of three, God hath said, 
I will establish my word, Nevertheless, God sendeth more 
witnesses; and he proveth all his words. Behold, my soul 
delighteth in proving unto my people the truth of the com- 
ing of Christ: for, for this end hath the law of Moses been 
given: and all things which have been given of God from 
the beginning of the world, unto man, are the typifying of 
him. And also, my soul delighteth in the covenants o 
the Lord-which he hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul 
delighteth in his grace, and his justice, and power, and 
mercy, in the great and eternal plan of deliverance from 
death. And my soul delighteth in proving unto my peo- 
ple, that save Christ should come, all men must perish. 

or if there be no Christ, there be no God; and if there be 
no God, we are not, for there could have been no creation. 

But there is a God, and he is Christ; and he cometh in the 
fullness of his own time. 

_ And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that whoso 
of my people’shall see these words, may lift up their hearts 
and rejoice for all men. Now these are the words; and ye 
may liken them unto you, and unto all men. 

The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw, concerning 
Judah and Jerusalem: os it shall come to pass in the 


( 
' 86 ' SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI 


last days, when the mountein of the Lord’: kouġo:shall be 
- established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalt- 
ed above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it, and 
~ many people shall pe and — Come ye and let us go u 
“to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God o 
Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk 
in his paths: for out of Zion shall‘ go forth the law, and 
the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge 
among the nations, and shall rebuke many people; and 
they shall beat thefr swords into plough-shares, and their 
@pears into pruning hooks; nation shail ‘not lift up sword 
against nation, neither shall they learn: war ay more, O 
house of Jacob, come ye and let us walk ip the light of the 
Lord; yea, come, for ye have all gone astray, every one to 
his wicked ways. ; 

Therefore, Ô Lord, thou hast forsaken thy people, the 
house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, 

' and hearken unto soothsayets like the Philistines, and they 
please themselves in the children of strangers. Their land 
also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of 
their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is 
there any end of their chariots; their land also is full of 
idols; they worship the work of their own hands,—that 
which their own fosos have made: and the mean man 
boweth not down, and the great man humbleth himself 
not: therefore forgive him not. 

O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and hide thee in 
the dust, for the fear of the Lord, and the glory of his ma- 
jety shall smite thee. And it shall come to pass that the 

ofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness 
of men shall be bowed down, and the Lord alone shall be 
exalted in that day. For the day of the Lord of hosts soon 
cometh upon all nations; yea, upon every one; yea, upon 
the proud and lofty, and upon every one who is lifted up; 
and he shall be brought low; yea, and the day of the Lord 
, ¿Shall come upon all the cedars of Lebanon, for they are 
« high and lifted up; and upon all the oaks of Bashan, and 
` upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills, and 
upon all the nations which are lifte up, and upon every 
people, and upon every high tower, and upon every fenced. 
wail, and upon all the ships of the sea, and upon all the 
ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures. And the 
loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness 
of men shall be made low; and the Lord alone shalt be ex- 
alted in that day. And the idols he shall utterly abotish. 
And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the, 
caves of the earth, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon 


Sq 5 * 


SEOOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 87 


them: and the glory of his majesty shall smite them, when 
he ariseth to shake terribly the earth. In that day a man 
shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which 
he hath made for himself to worship, to the moles and to 
the bats; to go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the 
tops of the ragged rocks, for the fear of the Lord shall come 
upon them, and the majesty of +his glory shall smite them . 
when he ariseth to shake tertibly the earth. Cease ye from 
man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for wherein ig he to 
be accounted of? ; 

For behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, doth take away 
from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the 
whole staff of bread, and the whole stay of water, the mighty . 
man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and 
the prudent, and the ancient, the captain of fifty, and the 
honorable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artifi- 
cer, and the eloquent orator. And I will give children unto 
them to be their princes, end babes shall rule over them. 
And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, 
and every one by his neighbor: the child shall behave him- 
self proudly against.the ancient, and the base against the 
honorable. hen a man shall take hold of his brother of 
the house of his father, and shall say, thou hast clothing, 
be thou our ruler, and let not this ruin come under thy hand; ° 
in that day shall he swear, saying, I will not be a healér; 
for in my house there is neither bread nor clothing: make 
me not a. ruler of the people. For Jerusalem is ruined, and 
Judah is fallen: because their tongues and their doi 
have been against the Lord, to provoke the éyes of his 
glory. 

The shew of their countenance doth witness against - 
them, and doth declare their sin to be even as Sodom, and 
they cannot hide it. Wo unto their soula, for they have 

tewarded evil unto themselves. Say unto the righteous, 
that it is well with them; for they shall eat the fruit of 
their doings. Wo untothe wicked! for they shall perish: 
| for the reward of their hands shall be upon them. 

And my people,children are their oppressors, and women . 
tule overthem. O my people, they who lead thee cause 
thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. The Lord 
standeth up to plead, ard standeth to judge the people. 
The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his 
people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the 
vineyard, and the spoil of the poor in your houses. What 
acan yet Ye beat my people to pieces, and .grind the, 
faces of the poor, saith the Lord God of hosts. 

Moreover the Lord saith, because the daughters of Zion 


88 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. - 


are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wan. 
ton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a 
tinkling with their feet: therefore the Lord will smite with 
a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and 
the Lord will discover.their secret parts. ` In that day the 
Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling orna- 
ments, and cauls, and rount tires like the moon, the chains 
and the bracelets, and thé mufflers, the bonnets, and the 


ornaments of their legs, and the head-bands, and the tablets. 


and the ear-rings, the rings, and nose-jewels, the changa- 

ble suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and 
the crisping-pins, the glasses, and the fine linen, and hoods, 
and the vails. - 

And it shall come to pass, instead of sweet smell, there 
shall be stink; and instead of a girdle, a rent; and instead 
of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a- stomacher, a 
girding of sackeloth; bnrning instead of beauty. Thy 
men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. 
And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be 
desolate, and shall sit upon the ground. 

And in that day, seven women shall take hold of one 
man, saying, we will eat our own bread, and wear our own 
apparel: only let us be called by thy name,to take away 
our reproach. In that-day shal! the branch of the Lord be 
beautiful and glorious; ‘the fruit of the earth excellent and 
comely to them that are escaped of Israel. 

And it shall come to pase, them that are left in Zion, and 
remain in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, every one that 
is written among the living in Jerusalem: when the Lord 
shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, 
and shall have’ purged the blood of Jerusalem from the 
midst thereof by the spirit of i udgment, and by the spirit of 
burning. And the Lord wili ereate upon every dwelling- 
place of mount Zion, and upon her assemblies, a cloud and 
smoke.by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night: 
for upon all the glory of Zion shall be a defence. And 
there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time 
from the heat, and fora place of refuge, and a covert from 
storm and from rain. i 

And then will I sing to my well beloved a song of my 
beloved touching his vineyard. My well beloved hath a 


vineyard in‘a very fruitful hill: and he fenced it, and gath- _ 
ered out the stonos thereof, and planted itwith the choicest | 


vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a 

wine-press therein: and he looked that it should bring forth 
apes, and it brought forth wild gapen And now, O in- 
bitants of Jerusalem, and men of 


udah, judge, I pray 





SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 89 


‘you, betwixtme and my vineyard. What could have been 
one more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it; 

Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, 
it brought forth wild grapes. And now goto; I will tell you 
what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge 
thereof, and it shall be eaten up; and I will break down 
the wall thereof, and it shall he trodden down: and I will 
lay it waste: it shall not be pruned nor digged; but there 
shall come up briers and thorns; J will also command the 
elouds that they rain no rain upon it. For the vineyard of 
the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of 
Judah his. poon plant: and he looked for judgment, 
and behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold 4 
cry. i 
Wo unto them that join house to house, till there can be 
no place,.that they may be placed alone in the midst of the 
earth! In mine ears said the Lord of hosts, of a truth many 
hoases shall be desolate, and great and fair cities without 
inhabitant. Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one 
bath, and the seed of a homer shall yield an ephah. 

Wo unto them that rise up eatly in the morning, that 
they may follow strong drink: that continue until night, 
and wine inflame them! ‘And the harp, and the viol, the 
tabret and pipe, ahd wine are in their feasts; but they re- 
gard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the oper- 
ation of his hands. 
- Therefore, my people are gone into captivity, because 
they have no knowledge: and their honorable men are fam- 
ished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. There- 
fore, hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth 
without meausure: and their glory, and their multitude, 
and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into 
it. And the mean man shall be brought down, and the 
mighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty 
shall be humbled: but the Lord of hosts shall be exalted 
in jadgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in 
righteousness. Then ehall the lambs feed after their man- 
ner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers 
eat. Wo unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vani- 
ty, and sin as it were with.a cart-rope; that say, let him 
make speed, hasten his work, that we may see it: and let 
the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, 
that we may know it. : 

Wo unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that 
put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bit- 
ter for sweet, and sweet Or N: Wo unto the wise in 


g9 SECOND BOOK OF NBPRT. 


their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight! Wo ume 
the mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle 
strong drink: who justify the wicked for reward, and take 
away the righteousness of the righteous from him! There- 
fore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame con- 
sumeth the chaff, their root shall be rottenness, and their 
blossoms shall go up as dust; because they have east away 
the law of the Lord of hosts, and despised the word of the 
Holy One of Israel. Therefore, is the anger of the Lord 
kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his 
hand against them, and hath smitten them: and the hille 
did tremble, and their cacasses were torn in the midst of 
the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but 
his hand stretched out still. 

And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, 
and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and 
behold, they shall come with speed. swiftly: none shall! be 
weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor 
sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be loesed, nar 
the jatchet of their shoes be broken: whose arrows shall 
be sharp, and all their bows bent, and their horses’ hoofs 
shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirl- 
wind, their roaring like a liom They shall roar like 
young lions: yea, they shall roar, and’ lay hold of the 
prey, and shall carry away safe, and none shal) deliver. 
And in that day they shall roar against them like the roar- 
ing of the sea; and if they look unto the land, behold, darke 
* * sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens 
thereo 


— +o 


CHAPTER IX. 


In the year that king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord 
sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train fill- 
ed the temple. Above it stood the seraphims; each one 
had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with 
twain he covered his feet, and with twain hedid fly. And 
one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the 
Lord of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory. And 
the posts of the door maved at the voice of him that cried, 
and the house was filled with smoke. 

Then said I, wo is unto me! for I am undone; because 
I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of q 
peopte of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, 


mooao POGK OF Ware 91 


the Lord of hosts. Then flew one ef the ima unte 
me, having alive coal in his hand, which he had taken 
with the tongs from off the altar: and he laid it upon my 
mouth, and said, Lo, this has touched ay lipe; and thine 
iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. Also I heard 
the voice of the Lord, saying, whom'shall I send, and whe 
will go for us? Then I said, here am I; send me. 

And he said, go, and tell this people, hear ye indeed, 
but they understood not; and see ye indeed, but they per 
geived not. Make the heart of this people fat, and make 
their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with 
their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with 
their heart, and be converted, and be healed. Then said 
I, Lord, how long? And he said, until the cities be wasted 
without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the 
land be utterly desolate; and the Lord, have removed men 
far away, for there shall be a great forsaking in the midst 
ofthe land. f 

But yet there shall be a tenth, and they shall return, and 
shall be eaten: asa teil-tree, and as an oak whose substance 
is in them, when they cast their leaves: so the hely seed 
shall be thesubstance thereof, 

And it came to pass in -the anys of Ahaz the son of 
Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin, kin 
of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, 
went up towards Jerusalem to war against it, but could not 
prevail against it. And it was.told the house of David, say- 
ag, Syria is confederate with Ephraim, And hie heart was 
aoed, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the w 
ere moved with the wind. Then said the Lord unto Isaiah, 
go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shearjashub thy 
son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the high- 
way of the fuller’s field; and say unto him, take heed, and 
be quiet; fear not, neither be faint-hearted for the two tails of 
these smoking fire-brands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with 
Syria, and of the son of Remaliah. Because Syria, Ephraim, 
and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil counsel against 
thee, saying, let us go up against Judah, and vex it, and let 
us make a breech therein for us, and set a king in the midst 
of it, yea the son of Tabeal: thus saith the Lord God, it 
shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass. For the head 
of Syria, is Damascus; and the head of Damascus, Rezin: 
and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be bro- 

ken, that it bé not a people. And the head of Ephraim is 
Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah’s son. If 
ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established. 

Moreover, the Lord spake again unte Ahaz, saying, ask 


se SECOND BOOK OF wit. 


thee a sign ot the Lord thy God; ask it either in the 
—— or in the heights above. But Ahaz said I will not 
ask, neither will I tempt the Lord. And he said; hear 
ye now, O house of David; is it a small thing for you to 
weary men, but will ye weary my God also? Therefore 
the Lord himself shall ive you asign: Behold, a virgin 
shall conceive, and shall bear a son, and shall call hie 
name Immanuel; Butter and honey shall he eat, that he 
may know to refuse the evil, and to choose the good. For 
before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose 
the good, the land thet thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of 
both her kings. ` - 

The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, 
and upon thy father’s house, days that have not come, from 
the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, the king of 
Assyria. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the 
Lord shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of 
Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. And 
they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate 
valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, 
and upon all bushes. In the same day shall the Lord shave 
with a razor that is hired, by them beyond the river, by 
the king of Assyria, the head, and the hairof the feet; 
and it shall also consume the beard. And it shall 
come to pass in that day, a man shall nourish a young cow, 
andtwosheep; andit shall come to pass, for theabundance 
of milk they shall give, he shall eat butter; for butter and 
honey shall every one eat that is left in the land. And it 
shall come to pass in thet day, every place shall be, where 
there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, which 
shall be for briers and thorns. With arrows and with 
bows shall men come thither; because all the land shall he- 
come briers and thorns. Andall hills that shall he digged 
with the mattock, there shall not come thither the fear of 
briers and thorns: but it shall be for the sending forth of 
oxen, and the treading of lesser cattle. 

Moreover, thé word of the Lord said unto me, take thee 
a great roll, and write in it with a man’s pen concerning 
Moher-shalal-hash-baz. And I took unto me faithful wit- 
nesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of 
Jeberechieh. And I went unto the phophetess; and she 
conceived and bear a son. Then said the Lord to me, call 
his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz. For behold, the child 
bhall not have knowledge to cry, my father, and my moth- 
er, before the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Sama- 
ria shall bo taken away before the kirig of Assyria. 

The Lord spake also unto me again, saying, forasmuch 


as this people refaseth the waters of Shitoah that go softly 
and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son; now therefore, 
behold, the Lord bringeth up-upon them the waters of the 
river, strong and many, even the king of Assyria, and 
all hia glory: and he shall come up over all his channels, 
and go overall his banks: and he shall pass through Judah 
he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the 
neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the 
breadth of thy land, O Immanuel. 

Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken 
in pieces; and give ear all ye of far countgies: gird your- 
selves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, 
and ye shalibe broken in pieces. Take counsel together 
and it shall come to mone t: speak the word, and it shall 
not stand: for God is with us. 

Forthe Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and 
instructed me that I should not walk in the way, of this 
people, eying, say ye not, e confederacy, to all to whom 
this people sball say, a confederacy; neither fear ye their 
fear, nor be afraid. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, 
and let him be your fear, andiet him be yourdread. And 
he shall be for a sanctuary: But for a stone of stumbling 
and for a’ rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, fora 
gin and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And 
many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken 
and be snared, and be taken. Bind up the testimeny, seal 
the law among my disciples. And I will wait upon the 
Lord, that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I 
will look for him. Behold, I and the children whom the 
Lord hath given me are for signs end for wonders in Israel 
from the Lord of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion. 

And when they shall say unto you, seek unto them that 
have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and 
matter: should not a people seek unto their God? by. the 
living to hear from the dead? to the law and to the testi- 
money: and if they speak not according to this word, it is 
because there is no light in them. And they shall pass 
through it hardly bestead and hangry, and it shall come 
to pass, that when they shail be hungry, they shall fret 
themseives, and curse their king and their God, and look 
upward. And they shall look unto the earth; and behold 
trouble, and darkness, dimness of anguish, and shali be 
driven to darkness. — 

Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such us was in 
her vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted’ the land of 
‘Zebulun, and the land of Naphtali, and afterwards did 
more grievously afflict by the way of the Red Sea beyond 


at FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. - 


Jordan in Geliles of the nations. The people that walked 
in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the 
land of the shadow ef death, upon them hath the light 
shined. Thou hast multiplied the nation, and increased 
the joy : they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, 
and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. For. thou 
hast broken the yoke of his. burden, and the staff of his 
shoulder, the rod of his oppressor. For every battle of the . 
warrior with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood; 
but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto 
us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the 
overnment shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall 
Be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The - 
everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. Of the increase 
of government and peace there is no end, upon the throne 
of Ravid, and upon his kingdom, to orderit, and to estab- 
lish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth 
even ferever. The seal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. 

The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted 5 
upon Israel. And all the people shall know, even Ephraim 
and the inhabitants of Samaria, that sayin the pride and 
stoutness of heart, the bricks are fallen down, but we 
will build with hewn stones: the sycamores are cut 
down, but we will change them into cedars. Therefore 
the Lord shall set up the adversaries of Rezin against him 
and join his enemies together; the Syrians before, and the 
Philistines behind: and they shall devour Israel with . 
open mouth. For all this his anger is not turned away, but 
his hand is stretched out still. 

For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them 
neither do they seek the Lord of hosts. Thereforo, will the 
Lord cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush 
inone day. The ancient, he is the head; and the prophet 
that teacheth lies, he isthe tail. For the leaders of this 
people cause cnem to err; and they that are led of them are 
destroyed. Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their 
young men, neither shall have mercy on their fatherless 
and widows: for every one of them isa hyproorite and an - 
evil doer, and every mouth: speaketh folly. For all this 
oor anger is not turned away, but his hand stretched out 
sti s e 

For wickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour the 
briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the 
forests, arid they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke. 
Through the wrath of the Lord of hosts is the land dark- 
ened, and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire; no man 
shall spare his brother. And he shall snatch on the right 


.. SEEOND BOOK OF NASELI, !: 96 


“hand, and be hungry; and he shail eat en the left hand, 
- and they shall not be satisfied: they shall eat every man 
the flesh of his own arm; Manasseh, Ephraim; and È ta- 
im, Manasseh ; they together shall be against Judah. For 
all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand stretch- 
` ed out still. 
. Wo unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that 
write grievousness which they have prescribed; to turn 
away the needy from judgment, and to take away the right 
from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, 
and that they may rob the fatherless! And what will ye 
. do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall 
. come from far? to whom will ye flee for help? and where 
will ye leave your glory? ithout me they shall bow 
down, under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the 
slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his 
- hand stretched out still. . 
. O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their 
hand is their indignation. I will send him against a hypo- 
critical nation, and against the pcople of my wrath will I 
give him a charge, to take the speil, and to take the prey, 
and to tread them down like the mire of the streets. How- 
beit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; 
but in his heart it is to destroy :and cut off nations not a 
few. For.he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings? 
Is not Calno as Carchemish? Is not Hamath as Arpad? 
Is not Samaria as Damascus? As my hand hath founded 
the kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did 
excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria: shall I not, as I 
have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem 
and to her idols? Wherefore it shall come to pass, that 
when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount 
Zion and upon Jerusalem, I. will punish the fruit of the 
stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his 
uigh looks. For he saith, by the strength of my hand and 
by my wisdom I have done ‘hese things: for I am prudent; 
and I have moved the borders of the people, and have 
robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants 
like a valiant man: and my hand hath found as a nest the 
riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that are 
left, have I gathered all the earth: and there was none that 
-moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped. Shall 
the axe boast ifself against him that heweth therewith? 
Shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? 
as if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, 
or as if the staff should lift up itself, as if it were no wood. 
‘Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among 


€ 
gS SROOND BOOK OF SEEI. 


his fat ones, leanness: and under his glory he shall kindle 
a burning like the burning of a fire. And the light of Is- 
rael shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flame, and 
shall burn and shall devour his thorns and his briersin ono 
day: and shall congume the glory of his forest, and of his 
fruitful field, both soul and body; and they shall be as 
when a standard-bearer fainteth.. And the rest of the trees 
of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them. 

And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant 
of Israel, and such asare escaped of the house of Jacob, 
shall no more again stay upon him thet smote them; but 
shall stay upon the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. 
The remnant shall return, yea, even the remnant of Jacob, 
unto the mighty God. For though thy people Israel be as 
the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall return; the 
consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousneas. For 
the Lord God of hosts shall make a consumption, even de- 
termined, in all the land. 

Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of hosts, O my people 
that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he 
shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against 
. thee, after the manner of Egypt. For yet a very little 
while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in 
their destruction. And the Lord of hosts: shall stir up a 
scourge for him according to the qlaughter of Midian at the 
rock of Oreb: and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he 
lift it up after the manner of Egypt. And it shall come to 
pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from 
off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the 
yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing. He is 
come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he 
hath laid up his carriages; they are gone over the passage; 
they have taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramath isafraid; 
Gibeah of Saul is fled. Lift up the voice, O daughter of 
Gallim: cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Anathoth. 
Madmenah is removed: the inhabitants of Gebim gather 
themeelves to flee. As yet shall he remam at Nob that day; 
he shall shake his hand against the mount of the daughter 
of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem. Behold, the Lord, the Lord 
of hoats shall lop the bough with terror: and the high ones: 
of stature shall be hewn down: and the haughty shall be 
humbled. And he shall eut down the thickets of the for- 
ests with iron, and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one. 
' And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jes- 
ge, and a branch shall grow out of his roots; and the spirit 
of the Lord shall rest upon him, the epirit of wisdom and 
understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit. 





of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord; and shall make 
him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord: and he 
shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove 
after the hearing of his ears; but with righteousness shall 
he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek 
of the earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of 
his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the 
wicked. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, 
and faithfulness the girdle of his reins. The wolf also shall 
dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with 
the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling 
together; and a little child shall lead them. And the cow 
and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down 
together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And 
the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the 
weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den. 
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: 
for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as 
the waters cover the sea. ` 

And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which 
shall stand for an ensign of the people: to it shall the Gen- 
tiles seek: and his rest shall be glorious. And it shall 
come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand 
again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, 
which shall be left from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from 
Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, 
and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea. And 
he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assem- 
ble the outcasts of Isracl, and gather together the dispersed 
of Judah from the four corners of the earth. The envy of 
Ephraim aleo shall depart, and the adversaries of Judah 
ehali be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah 
shall not vex Ephraim. But they shali fly upon the shoul- 
ders of the Philistines toward the west: they shall spoil 
them of the east together; they shall lay their hand — 
Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obe 
them. And the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue o 
the Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind he shall shake 
his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven 
streams, and make men go over dry shod. And there shall 
be a highway for the remnant of his people, which shall be 
left, from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the day that 
he came up out of the land of Egypt. ; 

And in that day thou shalt say, O Lord, I will praise 
thee: though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turn-. 
ed away, and thou comers me. Behold, God ie my 


oF . $R0OND BOOK.OF NEPHI: 


saivation: I will trust, and not be afraid: for the Lotd, 
JEHOVAH is my strength and my song; he also has be- 
come my salvation. Therefore, with joy shall yo draw 
water out of the wells of salvation. Andin that day shall 

say, praise the Lord, call upon his name, declare his 
Joings among the people, make mention that his name is 
exalted. Sing unto the Lord; for he hath done excellent 
things: this is known in all the earth. Cry out and shout, 
thou inhabitant of Zion; for great is the Holy One of Is-: 
rael in the midst of thee. k i 


. 


—D4+o— 


CHAPTER X. 


Tue burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz’ 
didsee. Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt 
the voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into: 
the gates of the nobles. I have commanded my sanctified 
ones, I have also called my ey onés, for mine anger is 
not upon them that rejoice in my highness. The noise of 
the multitude in the mountains like as ofa great people ;- 
a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered to- 

ether: the Lord of hosts mustereth the hosts of the battle. - 

hey come from a far country, from the end of heaven, 
yea, the Lord, and the weapons of his indignation, to de- 
stroy the whole land. 

Howl ye; for the day ofthe Lord is at hand: it shall come! 
asa destruction from the Almighty, Therefore, shall all 
hands be faint, every man’s heart shall melt: and they shall 
be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them: they- 
shall be amazed one at another; their facesshall be as 
flames: Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, cruel both 
with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and 
he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. For the stars 
of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their 
light; the sun shall be darkened in her going forth, and 
the moon shall not cause her light toshine. And I will 

unish the world for evil, and the wicked for their iniquity : 
will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will 
lay down the haugtiness of the terrible, I will make a 
man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the 
Iden wedge of Ophir. Therefore, I will shake the 
eavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place, in the 
wrath of the Lord of hosts, and in the day of his fierce 
anger. And itshall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep 


SECOND BOOK OF NEFRI 29 


that no man taketh up: and they shall sen man turn to 
his own people, and flee every one into his own land. 
Every one that is proud shall be thrust through; yen, and 
every one that is joined to the wicked, shall fall by the 
eword. Their children also shall be dashed to pieces be- 
fore their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled and their wives 
ravished. Behold I will stirup the Medes against them, 
which shall not regard silver and gold, nor they shall not 
delight init. Their bows shall also dash the young men 
to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the 
womb; their eyes shall not spare children. 

And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the 
Chaldees’ excellency, shall be as when God overthrew 
Sodom and Gomorrah. It shall never be inhabited, neither 
shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither 
shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shep- 
herds make their fold there: but wild beasts of the desert 
shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful 
creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall 
dance there. And the wild beasts of the islands shall c 
in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant pal- 
aces: and her time is near to come, and her day shall not be 
ponga For I will destroy her speedily : yes for I will 

e merciful unto my people: but the wicked shall perish. 

For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet 
choose Israel}, and set them in their own land: and the 
strangers shall be joined with them, and they shall cleave 
to the house of Jacob. And the people shall take them, 
and bring them to their place; yea, from far unto the ends 
of the earth: and they shall return to their lands of prom- 
ise. And the house of Israel shall possess them, and the 
land of the Lord shall be for servants and handmaids; and 
they shall take them ‘captives, unto whom they were cap- 
tives; and they shall rule over their oppressors. And it shall 
come to pass in that day that the Lord’shall give thee rest, 
from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard bond- 
age wherein thou wast made to serve. 

And it shall come to passin that day, that thou, shalt 
take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, 
how hath the oppressor ceased, the golden city ceaged! 
The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked, the scep-~ 
tres of the rulers. He whosmote the people in wrath with 
a continual stroke, he that ruled the nations in anger, is 
persecuted, and none hindereth. The whole earth is at 
rest, and is quiet: they break forth into singing. Yea, the 
fir-trees rejoice at thee, and also the cedars of Lebanon, 
saying, since thou art laid down, no feller is come ug 


160 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


against us. Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee 
at thy coming; it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the 
chief ones of the earth : it hath raised up from their thronesall 
the kings of the nations. All they shall speak and say unto 
thee, art thou also become weak as we? Art thou become 
like unto us? Thy pomp is brought down to the grave; 
the noise of thy viols is not heard: the worm is spread un- 
der thee, and the worms cover thee. How art thou fallen 
from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! Art thou 
cut down to the ground, which did weaken the nations! 
For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into heaven, 
I will exalt my throne above.the stars of God: I will sit 
also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of 
the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; 
T will be like the Most High. Yet thou shalt be broaght 
down to hell, to the sides of the pit. They that see thee 
shall narrowly look upon thee, and shall consider thee, 
and shall say, is this the man that made the earth to trem- 
ble, that did shake kingdoms, and made the world as a 
wilderness, and destroyed the cities thereof, and opened 
not the house of his prisoners? All the kings of the na- 
tions, yea, all of them, lie in glory, every one of them in 
his own house. But thou art cast out of thy grave like an 
abominable branch, and the remnant of those that are slain, 
thrust through with a sword, that go down to the stones 
of the pit; as a carcass trodden under feet. Thou shalt 
not be joined with them in burial because thou hast de- 
stroyed thy land, and slain thy people: theseed of evil-doers 
shall never be renowned. Prepareslaughter for his children 
for the iniquities of their fathers; that they do not rise, nor pos- 
sess the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities, 
For I will rise up against them, saith the Lord of hosts, . 
and cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and 
son, and — saith the Lord. I will also make it a pos- 
session for the bittern, and pools of water: and I will sweep 
it with the besom of destruction, saith the Lord of hosts. 
The Lord of hosts hath sworn, saying, surely as I 
have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have pur- 
posed, so shall it stand: that I will bring the Assyrian in 
my land, and upon my mountains coat him under foot: 
then shall his yoke depart from off them, and his burden 
depart from off their shoulders. This is the purpose that 
is purposed upon the whole earth: and this isthe hand that 
is stretched out upon all nations. For the Lord of hosts 
hath purposed, and who shall disannual? And his hand 
stretched out, and who shall turnit back? In the year that 
king Ahaz died was this burden, i 


SESONG BOOK QF FAPEL. 101 


Rejoice not thon, whole Palestina, because the rod of 
him that smote thes is broken: for out of the serpent’s root 
shall come forth a cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fier 
flying serpent. - And the first-born of the poor shall feed, 
and the needy shall lie down in safety: and I will kill thy 
root with famine, and he shall slay thy remnant. Howl, 
O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved: 
for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none 
shall be alone in his appointed times. What shall then 
answer the messengers of the nations? That the Lord 
hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust 
in it. 


—<24+Qnr— 


CHAPTER XI. 


Now I, Nepni, dospeak somewhat concerning the words 
which I have written, which have been spoken by the 
mouth of Isaiah. For behold, Isaiah spake many thin 
which were hard for many of my people to understand: 
for they know not concerning the manner of prophesying 
among the Jews. For I, Nephi, have not taught them 
many things concerning the manner of the Jews; for their 
works were works of darkness, and their doings were do- 
ings of abominations. Wherefore, I write unto my peo- 
pole unto all those that shall receive hereafter these thin 
which I write, that they may know the judgments of God, 
that they come upon all nations, according to the word 
which he hath spoken. Wherefore hearken, O my peo- 
ple, which are of the house of Israel, and give ear unto my 
words: for because the words of Isaiah are not plain unto 
you, nevertheless they are plain unto all those that are filled 
with the spiritof prophecy. ButI give unto you a prophecy, 
according to the spirit which is in me; wherefore f shali 
prophesy according to the plainness which bath been with 
me from the time that I came out from Jerusalem with my 
father: for behold, my soul delighteth in plainness unte 
my people, that they may learn; yea, and my soul delight- 
eth in the words of Isaiah, for I came out from Jerusalem, 
and mine eyes hath beheld the things of the Jews, and I 
know that the Jews do understand the things of the propheta, 
and there is none other people that understand the things 
which were spoken unto the Jews, like unto them, save it 
he that they are taught after the manner of the things of 

9* 


102 SECOND BOOK OF. JETRI 


the Jews. But behold, I, Nephi, have not taught my-chil- 
dren after the manner of the Jews; but behold, I, of my- 
self, have dwelt at Jerusalem, wherofore I know concern- 
ing the regions round about; and I have made mention 
unto my children concerning the judgments of God, which 
hath come to pass among the Jews, unto my children, ac- 
cording to all that which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not 
write them. But behold, I proceed with mine own proph- 
ecy, according to my plainness; in the which I know t 
no man can err; nevertheless, in the days that the prophe» 
cies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled, men shall know of a surety, 
at the times when they shall come to pass; ‘wherefore, they 
are of worth unto the children of men, and he that suppo- 
seth that they are not, unto them will I speak particularly, 
and confine the words unto mine own people: for I know 
that they shall be of great worth unto them in the last days; 
-for in that day shall they understand them; wherefore, for 
their good have I written them. And as one generation 
hath been destroyed among the Jews, because of iniquity, 
even so have they been destroyed, from generation to gen- 
eration, according to their iniquities; and never hath any 
of them been destroyed, save it were foretold them by the 
prophets of the Lord. Wherefore, it hath been told them 
concerning the destruction which should come upon them, 
immediately after my father left Jerusalem; nevertheless, 
they hardened their hearts; and according to my prophecy, 
be have been destroyed, save it be those which are car- 
ried away captive into Babylon. And now this I speak be- 
cause of the spirit which isin me. And notwithstandin 
they have been carried away, they shall return again, an 
possess the land of Jerusalem: wherefore they shall be re- 
stored again to the land of their inheritance. But, behold, 
they shall have wars, and rumors.of wars; and when the 
day cometh that the only begotten of the Father, yea, even 
the Father of heaven and of earth, shall manifest himself 
unto them in the flesh, behold, they will reject him, be- 
cause of their iniquities, and the hardness of their hearts; 
and the stiffness of their necks. Behold they will crucif: 
him, and after he is laid in a sepulchre for the space o 
three days, he shall rise from the dead, with healing in his 
wings, and all those who shall believe on his name, shall 
be saved in the kingdom of God; wherefore, my soul de- 
lighteth to prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his 
day, and my heart doth magnify his holy name. | 
And behold it shall come to pass, that after the Messiah 
hath risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 103 


his people, unto as many as will believe on his name, be- 
hold, Jerusalem shall be destroyed again: for wo unto them 
that fight against God and the people of his church.— 
Wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered among all nations; 

ea, and also Babylon shall he destroyed; wherefore, the 

ews shall be scattered by other nations; and after they 
have been scattered, and the Lord God hath scourged them 
by other nations, for the space of many generations, yea 
éven down from genefation to generation, until they shall 
be persuaded to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and the 
atonement, which is infinite for all mankind; and when 
that day shall come, that they shall believe in Christ, and 
worship the Father in his name, with pure hearts, and clean 
hands, end look not forward any more for another Messiah, 
then, at that time, the day will come that it must needs be 
expedient that they should believe these things, and the 
Lord will set his hand again.the second time to restore his 
people from their lost and fallen state. Wherefore he, 
wil piacere to do a marvellous work, and a wonder among 
the children of men. 

Wherefore, hé shall bring forth his words unto them, 
which words shall judge them at the last day; for they 
shall be given them for the purpose of convincing them of 
the true Messiah, who was rejected by them; and unto the 
convincing of them that they need not look forward any 
more for a Messiah to come, for there should not any come, 
save it should be a false Messiah, which should deceive the 
people: for there is save one Messiah spoken of by tne pro- 
phets, and that Messiah.is he who should be rejected of 
the Jews. For according to the words of the prope the 
Messiah cometh in six hundred years from the time that 
my father left Jerusalem; and according to the words of 
the prophets, and also the word of the angel of Gad, his 
name shall be Jesus Christ, the son of God. 

And now my brethren, I have spoken plain, that ye can- 
not err: and as the Lord God liveth, that brought Israel 
up out of the land of Egypt, and gave unto Moses power 
that he should heal the nations, after they had been bitten 
by the poisonous serpents, if they would cast their eyes 
unto the serpent which he did raise up before them, and 
also gave him power that he should smite the rock, and the 
water should come forth: yea, behold, I say unto you, that 
as these things are true, and as the Lord God liveth, there 
is none other name given under heaven, save it bethis Je- 
sus Christ of which I have spoken, whereby man can be 
saved. 

Wherefore, for thie cause hath the Lord God promised 


104 “SECOND Boox OF NEPHI, 


unto me that these things which I write, shall be kept end 
preserved, and handed down unto my seed, from genera- 
tion to generation, that the pome may be fulfilled únto 
Joseph, that his seed should never perish as long as the 
earth should stand. Wherefore, these things shall go from 
generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; 
and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of 
God: and the nations who shall possess them, shall be 
judged of them according to the words which are written; 
for we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, 
and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be rec- 
onciled to God: for we know that itis by grace that we 
are saved, after all we can do. ie 
_ And notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep the 
law of Moses, and look forward with steadfastness ‘unto 
Christ, until the law shall be fulfilled; for, for this end was 
the law given; wherefore, the law hath become dead unto 
us, and we are made alive in Christ, because of our faith; 
yet we keep the law because of the conmandments; and 
we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, 
we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our pro- 
phecies, that our children may know to what source they 
may look for a remission of their sins. Wherefore, we 
speak concerning the law, that our children may know the 
eadness of the lew, and they, by knowing the deadness 
of the law, may look forward unto that life which is in 
Christ, and know for what end the law was given. And 
after the law is fulfilled in Christ, that they need not hard- 
en their hearts against him, when the law ought to be done 
away. 
Aud now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked peo- 
ple: wherefore, I have spoken plain unto you, that ye can- 
not misunderstand. And the words which I have spoken, 
shall stand as a testimony against you: for they are suf- 
ficient to teach any man the right way: for the right way 
is to believe in Christ and deny him not; for by denying 
him, ye also deny the prophets and the law. 

And now behold I say unto you, that the right way is to 
believe in Christ, and deny him not: and Christ is the Holy 
One of: Israel: wherefore ye must bow down before him, 
and worship him with all your might, mind, and strength, 
and your whole soul; and if ye do this, ye shall in no wise 
be cast out. And inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye 
must keep the performances and ordinances of God, until 
the law shall be fulfilled which was given unto Moses. 

And after Christ shall have risen from the dead, he shall 
shew himself unto you, my children, and my beloved breth- 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 105 


ren; and the words which he shall speak unto you, shall 
be the law which ye shall do. For behold, I say unto you, 
that I have beheld that many generations shall pass away, 
and there shall be great wars and contentions among my 
people. And after the Messiah shall come, there shall be 
signs given unto my people of his birth, and also of his 
death and resurrection; and great and terrible shall that 
day be unto the wicked; for they shall perish; and they 
perish because they cast out the prophets, and the saints, 
and stone them, and sley them: wherefore the cry of the 
blood of the saints shall ascend up to God from the ground, 
against them. Wherefore all those who are proud, and 
that do wiekedly, the day that cometh shall burn them up 
saith the Lord of hosts, for they shall be as stubble; and 
they that kill the prophets, and the saints, the depths of 
the earth shall swallow them up, saith the Lord of hosts; 
and mountains shall cover them, and whirl winds shall cony 
them away, and aoe shall fall upon them, and crus 
them to pieces and grind them to powder; and they shall 
be visited with thunderings, and lightnings, and earth- 
quakes, and all manner of destructions; for the fire of the 
anger of the Lord shall be kindled against them, and they 
shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall consume 
them, saith the Lord of hosts. 

O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the 
slain of my people! For I, Nephi, hath seen it, and it well 
nigh consumeth me before the presenve of the Lord: but 
I must cry unto my God, thy ways are just. But behold, 
the righteous, that hearken unto the words of the prophets, 
and destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with 
steadfastness for the signs which are given, notwithstand- 
ing all persecutions, behold they are they which shall not 
perish. But the Son of Righteousness shall appear unto ' 
them; and he shall heal them, and they shall have peace 
with him, until three generations shall have passed away, 
and many of the fourth generation shall have passed away 
in righteousness. And when these things have passed 
away, aspeedy destruction cometh unto my people; for, 
notwithstanding the pains of my soul, [haveseenit; where- 
fore, I know that it shall come to pass; and they sell 
themselves for nought; for, for the reward of their pride, 
and their foolishness, they shall reap destruction; for be- 
cause they yield unto the devil, and choose works of dark- 
ness rather than light; therefore they must go down to 
hell, for the spirit of the Lord will not always strive with 
man, And when the spirit ceaseth to strive with man, then 
cometh speedy destruction; and this grieveth my soul. 


406 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


And as I spake concerning the convincing of the Jews, 
that Jesus is the very Christ, it must needs be that the Gen- 
tiles be convinced also, that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal 
God; and that he manifesteth himself unto all those who 
believe in him, by the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, unto 
every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, working mighty 
miracles, signs and wonders, among the children of men, 
according to their faith, 

But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the last 
days; concerning the days when the Lord God shall brin 
these things forth unto the children of men. After my seed, 
and the seed of my brethren shall have dwindled in unbe- 
lief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles: yea, af- 
ter the Lord God shall have camped against them round 
about, and shall have laid seige against them with a mount, 
and raised fortsagainst them; and after they shall have been 
brought down low in the dust, even that they are. not, yet 
the words of the righteous shall be written, and the pray- 
ers of the faithful shall be heard, and all those who have 
dwindled in unbelief, shall not be forgotten; for those who 
shall be destroyed shall speak unto them out of the ground, 
and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and their voice 
shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God 
will give unto him power, that he may whisper concernin 
them, even as it were out of the ground; and their speec 
shall whisper out of the dust. For thus saith the Lord 
God: They shall write the things which shall be done 
among them, and they shall be written and sealed up in a 
book, and those who kare dwindled in unbelief, shall not 
have them, for they seek tq destroy the things of God; 
wherefore, as those who have been destroyed, have been 
destroyed speedily: and the multitude of their terrible ones, 
shall be as chaff that passeth away. Yea, thus saith the 
Lord God: Itshall be at an instant, suddenly. 

_ And it shall come to pass, that those who have dwindled 
in unbelief, shall be smitten by the hand of the Gentiles. 
And the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride of their eyes, 
and have stumbled, because of the greatness of their stum- 
bling block, that they have built up many churches; nev- 
ertheless they put down the power and the miracles of God, 
and preach up unto themselves, their own wisdom, and their 
own learning, that they may get gain, and grind upon.the 
face of the poor; and there are many ¢hurches built up 
which cause envyings, and strifes, and malice; and there 
are also secret combinations, even as in times of old, ac- 
cording to the combinations of the devil, for he is the foun- 
dation of all these things; yea, the foundation of murder, 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHT, 107 


and works of darkness; yea, and he leadeth them by the 
neck with a faxen cord, until he bindeth them with his 
strong cords forever. 

For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the 
Lord God worketh not in darkness. He doeth not any thing 
save it be for the benefit of the world; for he loveth the 
world, even that he layeth down his own life, that he may 
draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none 
that they shall not partake of his salvation. Behold, doth he 
cry unto any, saying, depart from me? Behold, I say unto 
you, nay; but he saith, come unto me all ye ends of the 
earth, buy milk and honey, without money, and without 
price. Behold, hath he commanded any that they should 
depart out of the synagogues, or out of the houses of wor- 
ship? Behold, I say unto you, nay. Hath he commanded 
any that they should not partake of his salvation? Behold, 
I say unto yon, nay; but he hath given it free for all men; 
and he hath commanded his people that they should per- 
suade all men to repentanee. Behold, hath the Lord com- 
mandedany that they should not partake of his goodness? 
Behold, I say unto you, nay; but all men are privileged the 
one like unto the other, and none are forbidden. He com- 
mandeth that there shall be no priestcrafts; for, behold, 
— are that men preach and set themselves up 
oralight unto the world, that they may get gain, and 

raise ofthe world; but they seek not the welfare of Zion. 
hold, the Lord hath forbidden this thing; wherefore, 
the Lord God hath given a commandment, that all men 
should have charity, which charity is love. And except 
they should have charity, they were nothing: wherefore, 
if they should have charity, they would not suffer the la- 
borer in Zion to perish. But the laborer in Zion, shall labor 
for Zion; for if they labor for money, they shall perish._— 
And, again, the Lord God hath commanded that men 
should not murder; that they should notlie; that they 
thould not steal; that they should not take the name of 
| the Lord their God in vain; that they should not envy; 
that they should not have malice; that they should not 
contend one with another; that they should not com- 
mit whoredoms; and that they should do none of these 
things; for whosn doeth them, shall perish; for none of 
these iniquities come of the Lord; for he doeth that 
which is good among the children of men; and he doeth 
wthing save it be plain unto the children of men; and he 
aviteth them all to come unto him, and partake of his 
joodness; and he denicth none that come unto him, black 
ind white, bond and frec, male and female; and he re- 


108 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 


membereth the heathen, and all are alike unto God, both 
Jew and Gentile. But bebold, in the last days, or in the 
days of the Gentiles; yea, behold all the nations of the 
Gentiles, and also the Jews, both those who shall come 
upon this land, and those who shall be upon other lands; 

` yea, even upon all the lands of the earth; behold, they 
will be drunken with iniquity, and all manner of abomi- 
nations; and when that day shall come, they shall be vi- 
sited of the Lord of hosts, with thunder and with earth- 
quake, and with a great noise, and with storm and with 
tempest, agd with the flame of devouring fire; and all the 
nations that fight againat Zion, and that distress her, shall 
be asa dream of a night vision; yea, it shall be unto them 
even as unto a hungry man, which dreameth, and behold 
he eateth, but he awaketh and hissoul is empty; or like 
unto a thirsty man which dreameth, and behold he drink- 
eth, but he awaketh, and behold he is faint, and his soul 
hath appetite: yea, even so shall the multitude of all the 
nations be that fight against mount Zion: for behold, all 
ye that do iniquity, stay yourselves and wonder; for ye 
shall cry out, and cry, yea, ye shall be drunken, but not 
with wine; ye shall stagger, but not with strong drink; 
for behold, the Lord hath oured out upon you, the spirit 
of deep sleep. For behold. ye have closed your eyes, and 
ye have rejected the poes, and your rulers, and the 
seers hath he covered because of your iniquity. 

And it shall come to pass, that the Lord God shall bring 
forth unto you, the — a book, and they shall be the 
words of them which: have slumbered. And behold the 
book shall be sealed: and in the book shall be a revelation 

- from God, from the beginning of the world, tothe ending , 
thereof. Wherefore, because of the things which are 
sealed up, the things which are sealed, shall not be deli- 
vered in the day of the wickedness and abominations of 
the people. Wherefore the book shall be kept from them, 
But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall 
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of 
those who have slumbered in the dust; and he shall deli- 
ver these words unto ‘another; but the words which are 
sealed, he shall not deliver, neither shall he deliver the 
book. For the book shall be sealed by the power of God, 
and the revelation which was sealed, shall be kept in the 
‚book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may 
ome forth: for, behold, they reveal all things from the 
foundation of the world unto the end thereof. And the 
day cometh that the words of the book which were sealed, 
shall be xead upon the housetops; and they shall be read 


4 


rt WE 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI 109 


by the power of Christ: and all things shall be revealed 
unto the children of men which ever have been among the 
children of men, and which ever will be, even unto the 
end of the earth. Wherefore, at that day when the book 
shall be delivered unto the man of whom I have spoken, 
the book shall be hid from the eyes of the world, that the 
eyes of none shal! behold it, save it be that three witnesses 

I behold it, by the power of God, besides him to whom 
the book shall be delivered; and they shall testify to the 
truth of the book and the things therein. And there is 
none other which shall view it, save it be a few, accorde 
ing to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto 
the children of men: for the Lord God hath said, that the 
words of the faithful should speak as if it were from the 
dead. Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring 
forth the wordsof the book; and in the mouth of as man 
witnesses as seemeth him good, will he establish his word; 
and wo be unto him that rejecteth the word of God. 

But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall 
eay unto him to whom he shall deliver the book, take 
these words which are not sealed, and deliver them to 
another, that he may shew them unto the learned, saying: 
Tead this, I pray thee. And the learned shall say, bring 
hither the book, and I will read them: and now, because 
of the glory of the world, and to get gain, will they sa 
this, and not for the glory of . And the man sha 
eay, I cannot bring the book, for it is sealed. Then shall 
the learned say, I cannot read it. Wherefore it shall 
come to pass, that the Lord God will deliver again the 
book and the words thereof, to him that is not learned; 
and the man that is not learned, shall say, I am not learned. 
Then shali the Lord God say unto him, the learned shall 
not read them, for they have rejected them, and I am able ta 
do mine own work; wherefore, thou shalt read the words 
which I shall give unto thee. Touch not the things which 
ere sealed, for I will bring them forth in mine own due 
time: for I will shew unto the children of men, that Iam 
eble to do mine own work. Wherefore, when thou hast 
read the words which I have commanded thee, and ob- 
tained the witnesses which I have promised unto thee, 
then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up unto 
me, that I may preserve the words which thou hast not 
read, until I shall see fit in mine own wisdom, to reveal 

all things unto the children of men. For behold, I am 
God; and I ama God of miracles; and I will shew unto 
the world that I am the mune yesterday, to-day, and for- 


110 SROOND BOOK OF NEPHL 


ever; and Í work not among the children of men, save it 
be according to their faith, 

And again it shall come to pass, that the Lord shall say 
unto him that shall read the words that shall be delivered 
him, forasmuch as this people draw near unto me with their 
mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed 
their hearts far from me, and their fear towards me is taught 
by the precepts of men, therefore, I will proceed to doa 
marvellous work among this people; yea, a marvellous 
work, and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise and 
learned shall perish, and the understanding of their pru- 
dent shall he hid. And wo unto them that seek deep to 
Nide their counsel from the Lord. And their works are 
in the dark; and they say, who seeth us; and who know- 
eth us? And they also say, sureiy, your turning of things 
upside down, shall be esteemed as the potter’s clay. But 
behold, I will shew unto them, saith the Lord of hosts, 
that I know all their works. For shall the work say of 
him that made it, he made me not? Or shall the thing 
framed say of him that framed it, he had no understand- 
ing? But behold, saith the Lord of hosts, I will shew un- 
to the children of men, that it is not yet a very little while, 
and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the 
fruitful field shall be esteemed asa forest. And in that 
day shall the deaf hear the words of the book; and the 
eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of 
darkness; and the meek also shall increase, and their joy 
shall be in the Lord; and the poor among men shall re- 
joicein the Holy One of Israel. For assuredly as the 

ord liveth, they shall see that the terrible one is brought 
to nought, and the scorer is consumed, and all that watch 
for iniquity are cut off; and they that make a man an of- 
fender for a word, and lay a snare. for him that reproveth 
in the gate, and turn aside the just fora thing of nought. 
Therefore thus saith the Tard. who redeemed Abra- 
ham, concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not new 
be ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale. But 
when he seeth his children, the work of my hands, in the 
midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sancti 
the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel. 
They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, 
and they that murmured shall learn doctrine. 


` SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI 111 
> CHAPTER XII. 


Anp now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you 
according as the spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, 
I know that they must surely come to pass. And the things 
which shall be written out of the book shall be of great 
worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our 
seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel. For it 
shall come to pass in that day, that the churches which are 
built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say 
unto the other, Behold, I, I am the Lord’s; and the other 
shall say, I, I am the Lord’s. And thus shall every one 
say, that. hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord; 
and they shall contend one with another; and their 
priests shall contend one with another; and they shall 
teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, 
which giveth utterance. And they deny the power of 
God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the peo- 
ple, hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept; for behold, 
there is no God to-day, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath 
done his work, and he hath given his power unto men.— 
Behold, hearken ye unto my precept: if they shall say 
there is a miracle wrought, by the hand of the Lord, be- 
lieve it not; for this day he is not a God of miracles; he 
hath done his work. Yea, and there shall be many which 
shall say, eat, drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we die: 
and it shall be well with us. And there shall also be many 
which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, 
fear God, he will justify in committing a little sin: yea, 
lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, 
dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm inthis. And 
do all these things, for to-morrow we die; and if itso be. 
that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, 
and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God. Yea, 
and there shall be many which shall teach after this man- 
ner, false, and vain, and foolish doctrines, and shall be 
puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their 
counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the 
dark; and the blood of the saints shall cry from the ground 
against them. Yea, they have all gone out of the way; 
they have become corrupted. Because of pride, and be- 
cause of false teachers, and false doctrine, their churches 
have become corrupted; and their churches are lifted up; 
because of pride, they are puffed up. They rob the poor, 
because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob the poor, be- 
cause of their fine clothing; and they persecute the meek, 
and the poor in heart; because in their pride, they are 


112 SECOND BOOX OF NEPHI. 


pate up. They wearstiffnecksand high heads; yea, and 
ecause of pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and 
whoredoms, they have all gone astray, save it be a few, 
who are the humble followers of Christ; nevertheless, they 
are led, that in’ many instances they do err, because they 
are taught by the precepts of men. 

O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puff- 
ed up in the pride of their hearts, and all those who preach 
false doctrines, and all those who commit whoredoma, 
and pervert the right way of the Lord; wo, wo, wo he 
unto them, saith the Lord God Almighty, for they shall be 
thrust down to hell. 

Wo unto them that turn aside the just fora thing of 
nought, and revile against that which is good, and say that 
it is of no worth: for the day shall come that the Lord God 
will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that 
day that they are fully ripe in iniquity, they shall perish. 
But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of 
their wickedness and abominations, they shall not be de- 
stroyed, saith the Lord of hosts. But behold, that great 
, and abominable church, the whore of all the earth, must 
tumble to the earth; and great must be the fall thereof: 
for the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which 
belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the 
devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and 
they be stirred up to anger and perish: for behold, at that 
day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and 
stir them up to anger against that which is good; and oth- 
ers will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, 
that they will say, all is well in Zion; yea, Zion prosper- 
eth, all is well; and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and 
leadeth them away carefully down to hell. And behold, 
others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hells 
and he saith unto them, I am no devil, for there is none: 
and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them 
with his awful chains, from whence there is no dalicranice: 
Yea, they are grasped with death and hell; and death, and 
hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized therewith, 
must stand before the throne of God and be judged according 
to their works, from whence they must go into the place 

repared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone, which 
is endless torment. Therefore, wo be unto him that is at 
ease in Zion. Wo be unto him that crieth, all is well; yea, 
wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, 
and denieth the power of God and the gift of the Holy Ghost, 
Yea, wo be unto him that saith, we have received, and we 
need no more. And in fine, wo unto all those who trem- 


SECOND ROOK OF NEPEL 113 


hle, and are angry because of the trath of God., For behold, 
he that is built upon the rock, receiveth it-with gladness: 
and he that is built upon a sandy foundation, trembleth, 
Jest he shall fall. 

Wo be unto him that: shall say, we have received the 
word of God, and we need no mere of the word of God, for 
we have enough. For behold, thus saith the Lord God: 
I will give unto the children of men line upon line, pre- 
cept upon precept, here a little and there a little: and blese- 
ed are those who hearken unto m — and lend an ear 
unto my counsel, for they shail. earn wisdom; for unto 
him that receiveth, I will give more: and from them that 
shall say, we have enough, from them shall be taken away 
even that which they have. Cursed is he that putteth his 
trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shali hearken un- 
to the precepts of men, save their precepts shall be given 
by the. power of the Holy Ghost. 

Wo be anto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of hosts; 
for notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto 
them from day to day, they will deny me; neverthe- 
less, I will be merciful unto them, saith the Lord God, if 
they will repent and come unto me: for mine arm is leagth- 
ened ont ail the day long saith the Lord God of hosts. 

But behold, there shall be many at that day, when I shal! 
proceed todo a marvellous work among them, that I may re- 
member my covenants which I have made unto the children 
of men, that I may set my hand again the second time to re- 
cover my people, which are of the house of Israel; and aleo, 
that I may remember the promises which I have made unto 
thee, Nephi, and also unto thy father, that I would remem- 
ber your seed; and that the words of your seed should pro- 
ceed forth out of my mouth unto your seed. And m 
words shall hiss forth unto the ends of the earth, for a stand- 
ard unto my people, which are of the house of Israel. And 
because my words shall hiss forth, many of the Gentiles 
shall say,a bible, a bible, we have got a bible, and there 
cannot be any more bible. But thus saith the Lord God: 
O fools, they shall have a bible; and it shall proceed forth 

the Jews, mine ancient covenant people, And what 
thank they the Jews for the bible whic they receive from 
them? Yea, what do the Gentiles mean? Do they re- 
member the travels, and the labors, and the pains of the 
Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salva- 
tion unto the Gentiles? 

O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine an- 
cient covenant people? nay — ve have cursed them, and 


114 SECOND BOOK OF WEPHT. 


have hated them, and have not sought to recover them. 
But behold, I will return all these things upon your own 
heads; for I the Lord, hath not forgotten my people. 
Thou fool, that shall say, a bible, we have got a bible, and 
we need no more bible. Have ye obtained a bible, save it 
were by the Jews? Know ye not that there are more na- 
tions than one? Know ye not that I, the Lord your God, 
have created all men, and that I remember those who are 
upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule in the heavens 
above, and in the earth beneath; andI bring forth my word 
unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the ‘nations 
oftheearth? Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall 
receive more of my word? Know ye not that the testimon 
of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that { 
remember one nation like unto another? - Wherefore, I 

eak the same words unto one natidn like unto another. 

nd when the two nations shall run together, the testi- 
mony of, the two nations shall run together also. And 
I do this that I may prove unto many, that I am the same 
yesterday, to-day, and forever; and that I speak forth my 
words according to mine own pleasure. ` And because that 
I have spoken one word, ye need not suppose that I cannot 
speak another; for my work is not yet finished; neither 
shall it be, until the end of man; neither from that time 
henceforth and forever. 

Wherefore, because that ye have a bible, ye need not 
suppose that it contains all my words; neither need ye sup- 
pose that I have not caused more to be written: for I com- 
mand all men, both in the east, and in the west, and in the 
north, and in the south, and. in the islands of the sea, that 
they shall write the words which I speak unto them: for 
out of the books which shall be written, I will judge the 
world, every man according to their works, accordi 
to thet which is written. For behold, I shali speak unto 
the Jews, and they shall write it: and I shall also speak 
unto the Nephites, and they shall write it; And Ishall also 
speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel, which I 
have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also 
speak unto all nations of the earth, and they shall write it. 

And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the 
words of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the 
words of the Jews: and the Nephites and the Jews shall 
have the words of the lost tribes of Israel: and the lost 
tribes of Israel shall have the words of the Nephites and 
the Jows. i 

And it shall come to pass that my people which are of the 
_ House of Israel, shall be gathered home unto the lands of 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 115 


their ns; and my word also shall be gathered in 
one. AndI will shew unto them that fight against m 
word and against my people, who are of the house of Israel, 
that I am God, and that I covenanted with Abraham, that 
I would remember his seed forever. 
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak 
unto you: for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should sup- 
that ye are more righteous than the Gentiles shall be. 
or behold, except ye shall keep the commandments of God 
ye shall all likewise perish; and because of the words which 
ave been spoken ye need not suppose that the Gentiles 
are utterly destroyed. For behold, I say unto you, that as 
many of the Gentiles as will repent, are the covenant peo- 
ple of the Lord: and as many of the Jews as will not re- 
pent, shall be cast off; for the Lord covenanteth with none, 
save it be with-them that repent and believe in his Son, 
who is the Holy One of Teracl. 

And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concernin 
the Jews and the Gentiles. For ‘after the book of which 
have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gen- 
tiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be 
many which shall believe the words which are written; 
and they shall carry them forth unto-the remnant of our 
seed. And then shall the remnant of our seed know con- 
cerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and 
that they are descendants of the Jews. And the gospel of 
Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, 
they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, 
and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ which was had 
among their fathers. And then shall they rejoice; for they 
shal] know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand 
of God: and their scales of darkness shall begin to fall from 
their eyes: and many generations shall not pass away 
among them, save they shall be a pure and « delightsome 


e. l i 

nen it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scatter- 
ed, also shall begin to believe in Christ: and they shall begin 
to gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall 
believe in Christ, shall also become a delightsome people. 
And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall com- 
mence his work, aniong all nations, kindreds, tongues, and 
people, to bring about the restoration of his y upon the 
earth. And with righteousness shall the Lor Go judge 
the r, and — with equity, for the meck of the 
earth. And he shall smite the earth with the rod of his 
mouth; and with the breath of his lips shail he slay the 
wicked; for the time speedily cometh, that the Lord God 


314 WOON BOOK OF NEPHI 


shail cause a great division among the peoples and the 
wicked will he destroy; and he will spare his people, yea, 
even if itso be that he must destroy the wicked by fire. 
And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faith- 
fulness the girdle of his reins. And then shall the wolf 
’ dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with 
e kid; and the calf, and the young lion, and the fatling, 
together; and a little child shall lead them. And the cow 
and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down 
together; aud the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And 
the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and 
the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s 
den. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy monn- 
tain; for the earth shall be fuil of the knowledge of the 
Lord, as the waters cover the sea. Wherefore, the thi 
-of all nations shall be made known: yea, all things shall 
be made known untothechildrenof men. There is nothing 
which is secret, save it shall be revealed; there is no works 
of darkness, save it shall be made manifest in the light; 
‘and there is nothing which is sealed upon the earth, save 
it shall be loosed. herefore, all things which have heen 
revealed unto the children of men, shall at that day be re- 
vealed; and satan shall have power over the hearts of the 
children of men no more, fora long time. And now my 
beloved brethren, I make an end of my sayings. 


— 


CHAPTER XIII. 


Anp now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto 
you, my beloved brethren. And I cannot write buta few 
things, which: I know must surely come to pass; neither 
can I write but a few of the words of my-brother Jacob. 
Wherefore the things which I have written, sufficeth me, 
savo it be a few words which I must speak, concerning the 
doctrine of Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plain- 
ly, according to the plainness of my prophesying. Formy 
soul delighteth in plainness: for after this manner doth the 
Lord God work among the children of men. For the Lord 
God giveth light unto the understanding: for he speaketh 
unto men according to their language, unto their under- 
—— Wherefore, I would that ye should remember 
that I have spoken unto you, concerning that prophet 
which the Lord showed unto me, that should baptize the 
Lamb of God, which ahould take away the sins of the world. 


SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 117 


e 

And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should 
have need to be baptized by water to fulfil all righteous- 
ness, O then, how much more need have we, being unho- 
ly, to be baptized, yea, even by water. And now, I 
would ask of you, my beloved brethren wherein the Lamb 
of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by 
water? Know ye not that he was holy? But notwith- 
standing he being holy, he showeth unto the children of 
men, that according to the flesh, he humbleth himself be- 
fore the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he 
would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments; 
wherefore, after he was baptized with water, the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove. And 
again: It sheweth untothe children of men the straight- 
ness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by 
which they should enter, he having set the example 
before them. And he said unto the children of men, fol- 
low thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we 
follow Jesus, save we shall be willing to keep the commande 
ments of the Father? And the father said, repent ye, re- 
pent ye, and be baptized in the name of my beloved Son. 
And also, the voice of the Son came unto me saying, he 
that is baptized in my name, to him will the father give 
the holy Ghost, like unto me: wherefore, follow me, and 
do the things which ye have seén me do. Wherefore, my 
beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall follow the Son 
with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy and no de- 
ception before God, but with real intent, repenting of your 
sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take 
upon you the name of Christ, by baptism: yea, by following 
your Lord and your Savior down into the water, according 
to his word; behold, then shall ye receive the holy Ghost; 
yea, then comsgth the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; 
and then can ye speak with the — of angels, and shout 

ises unto the Holy One of Israel. 

But behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice 
of the Son unto me, seying, after ye have repented of your 
sins, and witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to 
keep my commandments, by the baptism of water, and 
have received the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, 
and can speak with a new tongue, yea, even with the 
tongue of angels, and after this, should deny me, it would 
have been better for you, that ye had not known me. 

And I heard a voice from the Father, saying, yea, the 
words of my beloved, are true and faithful. He that en- 
dureth to the end, the same shall be saved. And now, 
my beloved brethren, I know by this, that unless a man 


T22 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. . 


à ' 
thall endure to the end, in following the example of the 
Son of the living God, he cannot be saved; wherefore, do 
the things which I have told you I have seen, that your 
Lord and your Redeemer should do: for, for this cause 
have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the 
gate by which ye should enter, For the gate by which 
ye should enter is repentance and baptism by water: and 
then cometh a remission of your sins by fire, and by the 
Holy Ghost. And then are ye in this straight and narrow 
pen which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered in 

y the gate: ye have done according to the command» 
ments of the Fatherand the Son; and ye have received the 
Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Father and the Son, 
unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made, that 
if ye entered in by the way, ye should receive. 

And now my beloved brethren, after ye have got- 
ten into this straight and narrow path, I would ask, if all 
is done? Behold, I say unto you,nay; for ye have not 
eome thus far, save it were by the word of Christ, with 
unshaken faith in him, relying wholly upon the merits of 
Him who is mighty to save; wherefore, ye must press for- 
ward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect bright- 
ness of hope, and a love of God and of all men. Where- 
fore, if ye shall press forward, feasting upon the word of 
Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus saith the Fath- 
er: ye shall have eternal life. A 

And now behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; 
and there is none other way nor name given under heaven, 
whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of Ged. And 
now behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and the only 
and true doctrine of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Ghost, which is one God, without end. Amen. 

d 


— 4C 


CHAPTER XIV. 


Anp now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that 
ye ponder somewhat in your hearts, concerning that which 
ye should do, after ye have entered in by the way. But 

ehold, why do ye ponder these things in your hearts ?— 
Do ye not remember that I said unto you, thet after ye 
had received the Holy Ghost, ye could speak with the 
tongue of angels? And now, how could ye epeak with 
the tongue of angels, save it were yy the Holy Ghost; 
Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost: where 





SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 419 


fore, they speak the words of Christ. : Wherefore, I 
said unto you, feast upon the words of Christ; for behold 
the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should 
do. Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if 
ye cannot understand them, it will be because ye ask not 
neither do ye knock; wherefore, ye are not brought inte 
the light, but must perish in the dark. For behold, again 
Isay unto you, thatif ye will enter in by the way and ree 
deive the Holy Ghost, it will shew unto you all things 
what ye should do. Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ; 
and there will be no more doctrine given, until after he 
shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh. And when 
he shall manifest himself unto you in the’ flesh the things 
which he shall say unto.you, shall ye observe to do. 

And now I, Nephi, cannot say more: the apirit stoppeth 
mine utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the un- 
belief, and the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the 
stiff-neckedness of men: for they will not search knowl- 
edge, nor understand. great knowledge, when it is given 
unto them in plainess, even as plain as word can be. 

And now my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye pon- 
der stillin your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must 
speak concerning this thing. For if ye would hearken 
unto the spirit which teacheth a man to pray, ye would 
know that ye must pray: for the evil spirit teacheth not a 
man to pray, but teacheth him that he must not pray. But 
behold Í say unto you, that ye must pray always, and not 
faint: that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord, 
save in the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the 
name of Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance 
unto thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of 
thy soul. 


-2+o-— 


CHAPTER XV. 


AnD now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which 
were taught among my people; neithcr am I mighty in 
writing, like unto speaking: for when a man speaketh by, 
the power of the Holy Ghost, the power of the Holy Ghost. 
earrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men. But 
behold, there are many that harden their hearts against 
the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them: Wherefore, ! 

ey cast many things away which ate written, and es- 
tem them as things of nought. But I,Nephi, have write 


120 SECOND BOOK OF NEPEL 


ten what I have written; and J esteem it as of 
worth, and especially unto my people. For I pray continu- 
ally for them by dey, and mine eyes water my pie by 
night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, 
and I know that he will hear my cry; and I know that the 
Lord God will consecrate my prayers, for the gain of my 
péople. And the words which I have written in weak- 
ness, will be made strong unto them; for it persuadeth 
them to do good; it maketh ‘known unto them of their 
fathers; and it speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to 
believe in him, and to endure to the end, which is life 
eternal. And it speaketh harsh against sin, according to 
the plainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry 
at the words which I have written, save he shall be of the 
spirit of the devil.: I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I 
g ory in my Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from hell. 
have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ, that 
I shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment seat, I 
have charity for the Jew: I say Jew, because I mean them 
from whence I came: I also have charity for the Gentilea 
But behold, for noné of these can I hope, except they shall 
be reconciled unto Christ, and enter into the narrow gate, 
and walk in the straight path, which leads to life, and con- 
tinue in the path until the end of the day of probation. 
And now, my beloved brethren, and aleo Jew, and all 
ë ends of the earth, hearken unto these words, and be- 
ievo in Christ; andif ye believe not in these words, be- 
lieve in Christ. And if ye shall believe in Christ, ye will 
believe in these words; for they are the words of Christ, 
and he hath given them unto me; and they teach all men 
that they should do good. And if they are not the words 
of Christ, judge ye: for Christ will shew unto you, with | 
power and great glory, that they are his words, at the last 
day; and you and I shall stand face to face before his bar; 
and ye shall know that I have been commanded of him to 
write these things, notwithstanding my weakness : and I 
pray the Father in the name of Christ, that many of us, if 
ie all, may be saved in his kingdom, at that great and last 
ay. i 
And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of 
the house of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak 
unto you, as the voice of one crying from the dust: farce 
well until that great day shall come; and you that will not 
partake of the goodness of God, and respect the words of | 
the Jews, and also my words, and the words which shall! 
roceed forth out of nA mouth of the Lamb of God, be»! 
id, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words| 


| 
I 





— condus = — the last dey; * hort I sl on 

« sha rought against you at the judgment bar;. 

= thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must obey.. 
men. 


+ 
6 


mie Gree 


THE BOOK OF JACOB, THE BROTHER OF NEPHI.. 


CHAPTER I. 


The words of his preaching unto his brethren. He con- 
foundeth a man who seeketh to overthrow the doctrine of 

; ea Sew words concerning the history of the peop 
o w, 


For behold, it camo to pass that fifty and five years had 
passed away, from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; 
wherefore, Nephi gave me, Jacob, a commandment con- 
cerning the small plates, upon which these things are en- 
prera And he gave me, Jacob, a commandment that 

should write upon these plates, a few of the things 
which I considered to be most-precious: that I should not 
touch, save it were lightly, concerning the history of this 
people, which are called the people of Nephi. For he 
said that the history of his people should be engraven 
upon his other vos and thatI should preserve these 
plates, and hand them down unto my seed, from genera- 
tion to generation. And if there were preaching which 
was sacred, or revelation which was great, or prophesying, 
that I should engraven the heads of them upon these 
pe and touch upon them as much as it were possible, 

or Christ’s sake, and for the sake of our people: for be- 
cause of faith and great anxiety, it truly ie been made 
manifest unto us concerning our people, what things 
should happen unto them. Arnd we also had many reve- 
_ lations, aad ‘the spirit of much prophecy; wherefore, we 

knew of Chriat and his kingdom, which should come.— 
Wherefore, we labored diligently among our people, that 
we might persuade them to come unto Christ, and par- 
take of the goodness of God, that they might enter into 
his rest, lest by any means be should swear in his wrath 
they should not enterin, as in the provocation in the days 
of temptation, while the children of Israel were in the 
wilderness. Wherefore, we would to God that we could 

11 


|| o o - DOOK- OF).JACOB. 


persuade all men not to rebel against Ged, to:prevoke him 
to anger, but that all, men would believe in Christ, and 
view his death, and suffer his crogs..and hear the shame 
of the world; wherefore, I, Jacob, take it upon me to 
' fulfil the commandment of my brother Nephi. 

Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he must 
soon die; — he annointed a man to be a kin 
and ruler over his people now, according to the reigns o 

the kings. The people having loved Nephi exceedingly, 
he having been a great protector for them, having wielded 
the sword of Laban in their defence, and having labored 
in all his daya for their welfare; wherefore, the people 
were desirous to retain in remembrance his name. And 
whoso should reign iñ his steed, were called — people, 
‘second Nephi, third Nephi, &c. according to the reigns of 
the kings; and thus they were called by the. people, let 
them be of whatever name they would. 

And it came to pass that Nephi died. Now the people 
which were not: Lamanites, were Nephites; nevertheless, 
they were called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites, Zoram- 
ites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites. But I, 
Jacob, shall not hereafter distingaish them by these names, 
but I shah call them Lamanites, that seek to destroy the 
people of Nephi; and those who are friendly to Nephi, 

shall call Nephites, or the people of Nephi, according 
to the reigns of the kings. 

And now it came to pass that the poople of Nephi, un- 
der the reign of the second king, began to grow hard in 
their hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat in wicked 
practices, such as like unto David of old, desiring many 
wives and concubines, and also Solomon, his son: yea, 
and they also began to search much gold and silver, and 
began to be lifted up somewhat in pride; wherefore, I, 
Jacob, gave unto them these words as [ taught them in 
the temple, having firstly obtained mine errand from the 
Lord. For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph, had been 
consecrated priests, and teachers of this people by the 
hand of Nephi. And wedid magnify our office unto the 
Lord, taking upon us the responsibility, answering the sins 
of the people upon our own heads, if we did not teach them 
the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by laboring 
with our mights, their blood might not come upon our 
garments; otherwise, their blood would come upon our 
— and we would not be found spotloss at the last 

ye 


BOOK OF JACOB. 123 
' CHAPTER II. 


Tus words which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake 

wnto the people of Nephi, after the death of Nephi: Now, 
my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the responsi- 
bility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office 
with soberness, and that I might rid my garments of your 
sins, I come up into the temple this day, that I might de- 
clare unto you the word of God; and ye yourselves know, 
that I have hitherto been diligent in the office of my call- 
ing; but I this day am weighed down with much more 
desire and anxiety for the welfare-of your souls, than [ 
have hitherto been. For behold, as yet, ye have been 
obedient unto the word of the Lord, which I have given 
unto you. But behold, hearken ye unto me, and know 
that by the help of the all-powerful Creator of heaven and 
earth,’ I can tell you concerning your thoughts, how that 
ye are beginning to labor in sin, which sin appeareth very 
abominable unto me, yea, and abominable unto God.— 
Yea, it grieveth my soul and causeth me to shrink with 
shame before the presence of my Maker, that I might tes- 
tify unto you concerning the wickedness of your hearts; 
snd also, it grieveth me that I must use so much boldness 
of speech, concerning you, before your wives and your 
children, many of whose feelings are exceeding tender, 
and chaste, and delicate before God, which thing is pleas- 
ing unto God; and it supposeth me that they have come 
up hither to hear the pieasing word of God, yea, the 
word which healeth the wounded soul. 

Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul, that I should be con- 
strained because of the strict commandment which I have 
teceived from God, to admonish you, according to your 
crimes, to enlarge the wounds of those who are already 
wounded, instead of consoling and healing their wounds; 
and those who have not been wounded, instead of feast- 
ing upon the pleasing word of God, have daggers placed 
to pierce their souls, and wound their delicate minds.— 
But, notwithstanding the greatness of the task, I must do 
according tothe strict commands of God, and tell you con- 
cerning your wickedness and abominations, in the pre- 
sence of the pure in heart, and the broken-heart, and un- 
der the glance of the piercing eye of the Almighty God. 

Wherefore, I must tell you the truth, according to the 
plainness of the word of God. For behold, as I enquired 
of the Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying, Jacob, 
get thou up into the temple on the morrow, and declare 
the word which I shall give thee, unto this people, 


34 BOOK: OF JACOB. 


And now behold, my bréthten, this is the word which I 
declare unto you, that many of you have begun to search 
for gold, and for silver, and all manner of precious ores, 
in the which this land, which isa land of promise unto 
you, and to your seed, doth abound most plentifully.— 
And the hand of providence hath smiled upon you most 

leasingly, that you have obtained many riches; and be- 
use some of you have obtained more abundantly than 
that of your brethren, ye are lifted up in the pride of your . 
hearts, and wear stiff necks, and high heads, because of 
the costlinees of your apparel, and — your breth- 
ren, because ye suppose that ye are better'than they. 

And now my brethren, do ye suppose that God justifieth 
you in this thing? Behold, Í say unto you, nay. But he 
condemneth you, and if ye persist in. these things, his 
judgments must speedily come unto you. O that he 
would shew you that he can pierce you, and with one 

lance of his eye, he can smite you to the dust. O that 
Ee would rid you from this iniquity and abomination.—- 
_ And, O that ye would listen unto the word of his com- 
mands, and let not this pride of — hearts destroy your 
souls, Think of pe brethren, like unto yourselves, and 
be familiar with all, and free with your substance, that 
they may be rieh like unto you. But before ye seek for. 
riches, seek ye forthe kingdom of God. And after ye 
have obtained a hope im Christ, ye shall obtain riehes, if 
ye seek them; and ye will seek them, for the intent to do 

ood; to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to 

iberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick, and 
the afflicted. 

And now my brethren, I have spoken unto you coneern- 
ing pride; and those of you which have afflicted your neigh- 
bor, and persecuted him, because ye were proud in your 
hearts, of the things which God hat. gran you, what say 
ye of it? Do ye not suppose that such things are abomi- 
nable unto him, who created.all flesh? And the one bein 
is as precious in his sight asthe other. And all flesh is o 
the dust; and for the self same end hath he created them, 
that they should keep his commandments, and glorify him 
forever. And now Í make an end of speaking unto you 
concerning this pride. And were it not that I must speak 
unto you concerning a grosser crime, my heart would re- 
joice exceedingly, because of you. But the word of God 

urthens me because of your grosser crimes. For behold, | 
thus saith the Lord, this people begin to wax in iniquity ; 
they understand not the scriptures: for they seek to excuse 
themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the thingu. 





: 


BOOE OF JACOB. 125 


which were written concerning David, and Solomon his 
ron. Behold; David and Solomon truly had many wives 
and concubines, which thing was abominable before me, 
saith the Lord, wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led 
this people forth out of the land of Jerusalem, by the pow- 
er of mine arm, that I might raise up unto me a righteous 
branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph. Wherefore, 
I, the Lord God, will not suffer that this people shall do 
like unto them of old. Wherefore, my brethren, hear me, 
and hearken to the word of the Lord: for there shall not 
any man among you have save it be one wife: and concu- 
bines he shall have none: For I, the Lord God, delighteth 
ig the chastity of women. And whoredoms are an abomi- 
nation before me: thus saith the Lord-of hosts. Where- 
fore, this people shall keep my commandments, saith the 
Lord of hosts, or cursed be the land for their sakes, For 
if E will, saith the Lord of hosts, raise up seed unto me, I 
will command my people: otherwise, they shall hearken 
unto thege things. For behold, I, the Lotd, have secn the 
sorrow, and heard tho mourning of the daughters of my 
people in the land of Jerusalem; yea, and in all the lands 
of wy people, because of the wickedness and abominations 
of their husbands. And I will not suffer, saith the Lord 
of hosts, that the cries of the fair daughters of this people, 
which I have led out of the land of Jerusalem, shall come 
up nto me, against the men of my people, saith the Lord 
of hosts; for they shall not lead away captive, the daugh- 
ters of nry people, because of'their tenderness, save I shall 
visit them with a sore curse, even unto destruction; for 
they shall not commit whoredoms, like unto them of old, 
saith the Lord of hosts. 

And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these com- 
mandments-were given to our fataer Lehi; wherefore, yo 
have known them before; and ye have come unto great 
condemnation : for ye have done these things, which ye 
eught not to have done. Behold, ye have done greater in- 
iquities than the Lamanites, our brethren. Ye have bro- 
ken the hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence 
ef your children, because of your bad examples before 
them; and the sobbings of their heartaascend up to God 
against you. And because of the strictness of the word of 
God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, 
pierced with deep wounds. 

But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure 
in heart. Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray 
unto him with exceeding faith, and he will console you in 

+ ' 


186 poor or 14908. 


your sMictions, and he will plead your cause, and send 
down justice upon those who seek your destruction. | 
oO all e that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and 
receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; 
for ye may, if your minds are firm, forever. But wo, wo, 
unto you that*re not pure in heart; that are filthy this day 
before God; for except ye repent, the land is cursed for 
your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy like 
unto you, (nevertheless, they are cursed with a sere cure- 
ing) shall scourge you even unto destruction. And the 
time speedily cometh, that except ye repent, they shail 
posson the land of your inheritance, and the Lord Gad will 
ead away the righteous out from among you. Behold, the 
Lamanites, your brethren, whom ye hate, because of their 
filthiness and the cursings which hath come upon their 
skins, are more righteous than you: for they have not for- 
gotten the commandment of the Lord, which was given 
unto our fathers, that they should have, save it were one 
wife: and concubines they should have none; and there 
should not be whoredoms committed among them. And 
now this commandment they observe to keep; wherefore, 
because of this observance in keeping thie commandment, 
the Lord God will not destroy them, but will be merciful 
unto them; and one day they shall become a blessed peo- 
ple. Behold, their husbands love their wives, and their 
wives love their husbands, and their husbands and their 
wives love their children; and their unbelief and their ha- 
tred towards you, is because of the iniquity of their fathers; 
wherefore, how much better are you than they, in the 
sight of your great Creator? 
my brethren, I fear, that unless ye shall repent of your 
sine, that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye 
shall be brought with them before the throne of God.— 
Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, which. is the 
word of God, that ye revile uo more against them, because 
of the darknessof their skins; neither shall ye revile against 
them because of their filthineses; but ye shall remember 
our own filthineas, and remember that their filthiness came 
beaut of their fatheis. Wherefore, ye shall remember 
your children, how that ye have grieved their hearts be- 
cause of the example that ye have set before them; and 
also, remomber that ye may, because of your filthiness, 
bring your children unto destruction, and their sins be 
heaped upon your heads at the last day. 
O my brethren, hearken unto my word; arouse the fac. 
ulties of your soul; shake yourselvea, that ye may awake 
from the slumber of death; aud loose yourselves front the 


BOOK OF 34008. 427 


pains of hell, that ye may not become angels to the devil, 
to be cast into that lake of fire and brimstone, which is the 
second death. And now I, Jacob, spake many more things 
unto the people of Nephi, warning them egainst fornica- 
tion, and lasciviousness, and every Rind of sin, telling them 
the awful consequences of them; and a hundredth part of 
the proceedings of this people, which now began to be nu- 
merous, cannot be written upon these plates; but many of 
their proceedings are written upon the larger plates, and 
their wars, and their contentions, and the reigns of their 
kings. ‘These plates are called the plates of Jacob; and 
7 were made by the hand of Nephi. And I make ar 
of speaking these words. 


—i$Gere 


CHAPTER III. 


Now behold, it came to pass, that I, Jacob, having min- 
istered much unto my people, in word, (and I cannot write 
but a little of my words, becquse of the difficulty of engra- 
ving our words upon piates,) and we know that the things 
which we write upon plates, must remain; but whatsoever 
things we write upon any thing save it be upon plates, must 
perish and vanish away; but we can write a few wo 

plates, which will give our children, and also our be- 
loved brethren, a small degree of knowledge concerning 
as, or concerning their fathers. Now in this thing we do 
rejoice; and we labor diligently to engraven these words 
poa plates, hoping that our beloved brethren, and our 
thildren, will receive them with thankful hearts, and look 
upon them, that they may leatn with joy, and not with sor- 
row, neither with contempt coneerning their first parents: 
for, for this intent have we written these things, that the 
may know that we knew of Christ, and we had a hope o 
his glory, many hundred years before his coming, and not 
only we, ourselves, had a hope of his glory, but also all the 
hol pre hets which were before us. 

Be old, they believed in Christ, and sg 4 te the Fa» 
ther in his name; and aiso, we worship the Father in hia 
name. And for this intent, we keep the law of Moses, it 
——— our souls to him; and for this cause, it is saneti- 

ed unto us, for righteousness, even as it was accounted 
unto Abraham in the wilderness, to be obedient unto the 
commends of God, in offering up his son Isaac, which is a 
similitude of Ged and his only begotten Soa. Wherefore 


128 BOOK OF JACOB. 


we search the prophets; ahd we have many revelations, 
and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these witnesses, . 
we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken, in~ 
somuch that we truly can command in the name of Jesus; 
and the very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves 
of the sea; nevertheless, the Lord God sheweth us ‘our 
weakness, that we may know that it is by his grace, and 
his great condescensions unto the children of mon, that we 
have power to do these things. 

Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord: 
How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him ê 
and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways: 
And no man knoweth of his ways, save it be revealed unto 
him: wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of 
God. For behold, by the power of his word, man came 
upon the face of the carth; which earth was created By the 
power of his word. Wherefore, if God, being able to speak, 
and the world was; and to speak, and may was created, O 
then, why not able to command the earth, or the workman- 
ship of his hands upon the face of it, according to his will 
and pleasure. Wherefore, brethren, seek not to counsel 
the Lord, but to take counsel from hishand. For behold, 
ye yourselves know, that he counseleth in wisdom, and in 

ustice, and in great mercy, over all his works; wherefore, 
beloved brethren, be reconciled unto him, through the 
atonement of Christ, his only begotten Son, and ye may 
obtain a resurrection, according to the power of the resur- 
rection which is in Christ, and be presented as the first 
fruits of Christ, unto God, having faith, and obtained a good 
hope of glory in him, before he manifesteth himself in the 
flesh. 7 

And now, beloved, marvel not that I tell you these things; 
for why not speak of the atonément of Ohrist, and attain 
to a perfect knowledge of him, as to attain to tho know- 
ledge of a resurrection and the world to come? Behold, 
my brethren, he that prophesieth, let him prophesy to the 
understanding of men: for the spirit speaketh the truth, 
and lieth not. Wherefore, it speaketh of things as they 
really are, and of things as they really will be; wherefore, 
these things are manifested unto us plainly, for the salva- 
tion of our souls. But behold, wè are not witnesses alone 
a ae things; for God also spake them unto prophets of 
old. ; 

But behold, the Jews were a stiffnecked people; and they 
—— the words of plainness, and killed the prophets, 
and sought for things that they could not understand, 
Wherefore, because of their blindness, which blindness 


BOOK OF JACOB. 129 


came by locking beyond the mark, they must needs fall: 
for God hath taken away his plainness from them, and de- 
livered unto them many things which they cannot under- 
stand, because they desired it. And because they desired 
it, God hath done it, that they may stumble. 

And now I, Jacob, anr led on by the aut unto prophe- 
sying: for I perceive by the workings of the spirit which 
isin me, that by the stumbling of the Jews, they will re- 
ject the stone upon which they might build, and have safe 
oundation. But behold, according to the scriptures, this 
stone shall become the great, and the last, and the only 
eure foundation, upon which the Jews can build. And 
now, my beloved, how is it possible that these, after having 
rejected the sure foundation, can ever build upon it, that 
it may become the head of theit corner? Behold, my be- 
loved brethren, I will unfold this mystery, unto you; if I 
do not, by any means, get shaken from my firmness in the 
epirit, and stumble because of my over anxiety for you. 

Behold, my brethren, do ye not remember to have read 
the words of the prophet Zenos, which spake unto the house 
of Istael, saying: hearken O ye house of Israel, and hear 
the words of me, a prophet of the Lord: for behold, thus 
saith the Lord, I will liken thee, O house of Israel, like 
unto a tame olive tree, which a man took and nourished in 
his vineyard: and it grew, and waxed old, and began to 
decay. And it came to pass that the master of tho vine- 
yard went forth, and he saw that his olive tree began to 
decay; and he said, I will prune it, and dig about it, and 
nounsh it, that perhaps it may shoot forth young and ten- 
der branches, and it perish not. And it came to pass that 
he pruned it, and digged about it, and nourished ìt, accor- 
ding to his word. Andit came to pass that after many 
days, it began to put forth somewhat a little, young and 
tender branches; but behold, the main top thereof began 
to perish. And it came to pass that the maater of the vine- 
yard saw it, and he said unto his servant, it grieveth mo 
that I should lose this tree; wherefore, go and pluck the 
branches from a wild olive tree, and bring them hither unto 
me; and we will pluck off those main branches which are 
beginning to wither away, and we will cast them into the 
fire, that they may be burned. And behold, saith the Lord 
of the vineyard, I take away many of these young and ten- 
der branches, and I will graft them whithersoever I willt 
and it mattereth not that if it so be, that the root of thie 
tree will perish, I may preserve the fruit thereof unto my» 
self; wherefore, I will take these young and tender brana 
es, and I will graft them withersoever I will. Take hog 


348 BOOK OF JACOB. 


the branches of the wild olive tree, and graft them in, in 
the stead thereof: and these which I have plucked off, I 
will cast into the fire, and burn them, that they may not 
cumbet the ground of my vineyard. 

And it came to pass that the servant of the Lord of the 
vineyard, did according to the word of the Jord of the vine- 
yard, and grafted in the branches of the wild olive tree. 
And the Lord of the vineyard caused that it should be dig- 
ged about, and pruned, and nourished, saying unto his ser- 
vant, it grieveth me that I should lose this tree; wherefore, 
that perhaps I might preserve the roots thereof that they 
perish not, that I might preserve them unto myself, I have 
done this thing. Wherefore, go thy way; watch the tree, 
and nourish it, according to my words. And these will I 
pice in the nethermost part of my vineyard, whithersoever 

will, it mattereth not unto thee: and I do it, that I may 
preserve unto myself the natural branches of the tree; and 
also, that I may lay up fruit thereof, against the season, 
unto myself: for it — me that I should lose this tree, 
and the fruit thereof. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard went 
his way, ond hid the natural branches of the tame olive 
tree in the nethermost parts of the vineyard; some in one, 
and some in another, according to his will and pleasure. 
And it came to pass that a long time passed away, and the 
Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant, come, let us go 
down into the vineyard, that we may labor in the vineyard 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard, and 
algo the servant, went down into the vineyard to labor. 
And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master, 
behold, look here; behold the tree. And it came to pass 
that the Lord of the vineyard looked and beheld the tree, 
in the which the wild olive branches had been grafted; 
and it had sprang forth, and began to bear fruit. And he 

d that it was good: and the fruit thereof was like un- 
natural fruit, And he said unto the servant, behold, 
“ the branches of the wild tree hath taken hold of the mois- 
ture of the root thereof, that the root thereof hath brought 
forth much strength; and because of the much strength 
of the root thereof, the wild branches have brought forth 
tame fruit: now, if we had not grafted in these branches, 
the tree thereof would have perished. And now, behold, 
shall lay up much fruit, which the tree thereof hath brought 
forth; and the fruit thereof I shall lay up, against the sea- 
son, unto mine own self. , 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said | 

unto the servant, come, let us go to the nethermost part 


BOOK OF J00. a 


.of the ‘vineypid, and behold if the neturat branches ef the 
tree hath not brought forth much fruit also, that E may lay 
of the fruit thereof, against the season, unto mine own seit 
And it eame to pass hat they went forth whither the mas- 
ter had hid the nataral branches of the tree, and he said 
unto the servant, behold these: and he beheld the firss, 
that it had brought forth much fruit; and he beheld also, 
that it was good. And he said unto the servant, take of 
the fruit thereof, and lay it up, against the seasen, that [ 
may preserve it unto mine own self: for behold, said he, 
this long time have I nourished .it, and it hath brought 
forth much fruit. 

And it came to pass that the servant said unto his mas- 
ter, how comest thou hither to plant this tree, or this branch 
of the tree? for behold, it was the poorest spot in all the 
the land of the vineyard. And the Lord of the vineyard 
said unto him, counsel me not: I knew that it was a poor 
spot of ground; wherefore, I said unto thee, I have nour 
ished it this: long time; and thou beholdest that it hath 
brought forth much fruit. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said 
unto his servant, look hither: behold, I have planted ano- 
ther branch of the tree also; and thou knowest that this 
spot of ground was poorer than the first. But, behold the 
tree: I have nourished it this long time, and it hath 
brought forth much fruit; therefore, gather it, and lay it 
up, against the season, that I: may preserve it unto mine 
own self. 

And it came to paes that the Lord of the vineyard said 
again unto his servant, look hither, and behold another 
branch also, which I have planted; behold that I have 
nourished it also, and it hath brought forth fruit. Andhe 
said unto the servant, look hither, and behold the last: 
behold, this have I planted in a good spot of ground; and 
I have nourished it this long time, and only a part of the 
tree hath brought forth tame fruit; and the other part of 
the tree hath brought forth wild fruit: behold, I have nour 
ished this tree like unto the others. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said 
unto the servant, pluck off the branches that have not 
okies forth good fruit, and cast them into the fire. But 
behold, the servant said unto him, let us prune it, and dig 
about it, and nourish ita little longer, that perhaps it may 
bring forth good fruit unto thee, that thou canst lay it up 
against the season. And it came to pass that the Lord 
the vineyard, and the servant of the Lord of the vineyard, 
did nourish all the fruit of the vineyard. 


re BOOK OF JAGOD. 


ead the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant conve, 

let us go down into the vin „that we may labor again 

in the vineyard. For behold, the time draweth near, and 

the end soon cometh: wherefore, I must lay up fruit, 
inst the season, unto mine own self. 

And it came to that the Lord of the vineyard, and 
the servant, went down into the vineyard; and they came 
to the tree whose natural branches had been broken off, 
and the wild branches had been grafted in; and behold, 
all sorts of fruit did cumber the tree. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard did 
taste of the fruit, every sort according to its number. And - 
the Lord of the vineyard said, behold, this long time heve 
we nourished this tree, and I have laid up unto myself 
against the season, much fruit. But behold, this time it 
hath brought forth much fruit, and there is none of it which 
is good. And behold, there are all kinds of bad fruit; and 
it profiteth me — notwithstanding all our labor: and 
now, it grieveth me that I should lose this tree. And the 
Lord of the vineyard said unto the servent, what shall 
we do unto the tree, that I may preserve again good fruit 
thereof unto mine own self? And the servant said unto 
his master, behold, because thou didat graft in the branches 
of the wild olive tree, they have nourished the roots, that 
they are alive, and they have not —— wherefore, thou 
beholdest that they are yet good. — 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said 
unto his servant, the tree profiteth me nothing; and the 
zoots thereof profiteth me nothing, so long as it shall bring 
forth evil fruit. Nevertholess, I know that the roots are 
good: and for mine own purpose I have preserved them; 
and because of their much strength, they have hitherto 
brought forth from the wild branches good fruit. But 
behold, the wild branches have grown, and have overran 
the the roots thereof: and because that the wild branches 
-have overcome the roots thereof, it hath brought forth much 
evil fruit; and because th&t it-hath brought forth so much 
‘evil fruit, thou beholdest that it beginneth to perish: and 
it will soon become ripened, that ıt may be cast into the 
fire, except we should do something for it to preserve it. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said 
unto his servant, let us go down into the nethermost parts 
-of the vineyard, and behold if the natural branches have 
also brought forth evil fruit. And it,came to pass that 
they went down into the nethermost parts of the vineyard. 
And it came to pass that they beheld that the fruit of the 


; Ama Lt omana fe paai haf è DAG time had pamed away, 


MOR OF rA 433 


nstaral bevavhes had become corrupt also; the 

and the second, and also the last; and they hed ell —— 

corrupt. Aad the wild fruit of the last, had overcome that 

po of the tree which brought forth good fruit, even thas 
© branch hed withered away and died. 

And it eame to pase that the Lord of the vineyard w 
and said unto the servant, what could I have done more for 
my vineyard? Behold, I knew that sll the frnit of the 
vineyard, save it were these, had become corrupted. And 
now, these which have ence brought forth good fruit, have 
also become corrupted. And.now, all the trees of my 

are or nothing, save it be to be hewn down 
and cast into the fire. And behold, this last, whose branch 
hath withered away, I did plant in a good spot of grounds 
yea, even that which was choice unto me, above all other 
parts of the land of my vine And thou beheldest 
thet I also cut down that which cumbered this spot of 
ground, that I might plant this tree in the stead thereof,—~ 
And thou beheldest that apart thereof, brought forth good 
fruit; and a part thereof, brought forth wild fruit. And be- 
canse that I plucked not the branches thereof, and cast them 
into the fire, behold, they have overcome the good branch, 
that it hath withered away. And now behold, notwith- 
standing all the care which we have taken of my Na 
the trees thereof have become corrupted, that they bring 
forth no good fruit: and these I had-hoped to preserve, to 
have lai up fruit thereof, against the season, unto mine 
own self. But behold, they have become like unto the 
wild olive tree; and they are of no worth, but to be hewn 
down and cast into the fire: and it grieveth me that I 
should lase them. But what could I have done more in my 
vineyard? . Have J alackened mine hand, that I have not 
nonrishedit? Nay; I have nourished it, and I have digged 
about it, and I have pruned it, and I have dunged it; and I 
have stretched forth mine hand almost all the day long; 
end the end draweth nigh. And it grieveth me that Í 
pheuld hew down all the treesof my vineyard. and cast 
them into the fire, that they should be buraed, Who is it 
Mat hes corrupted my vineyard? 

And it came to pass that the servaut seid unte his mase 
tex, is it not the loftiness of thy vineyard? Have not the 
branches thereof overcome the roota, which are good ?~- 
And beeaune the branches haveovereome the roots thereof, 
behold, they grew faster thaa the stre; of the roots 
taking strength unto themselves. Behold, I say, is not 


12 


184 BOOK OF JACU 


this the cause that the trees of thy vineyard hove become 
corrupted ? i 

And it came to pass that the Lotd of the vineyard said 
unto the servant, let us to, and hew down the trees of 
the vineyard, and.cast them into -the fire, that they shall 
not cumber the ground of my vineyard; for I have done 
all; what could I have done more for my vineyard? But 
behold, the servant said unto the Lord of the vineyard, 
spare it a little longer. And the Lord said yea, I will spare 
it a little longer: forit grieveth me that } should lose the 
trees of my vineyard. Wherefore .let us take of the bran- 
ches of these which I have planted in the nethermost parte 
of my vineyard, and let us graft them into the tree from 
whence they came; and let us pluck from the tree those 
branches a ts fruit is most bitter, and graft in the natu- 
ral branches of the tree in the stead thereof. And this 
will I do, that the tree may not perish, that perhaps I may 
preserve unto myself the roots thereof, for mine own pur- 
pose. And behold, the roots of the natural branches of 
the tree which I planted whithersoever I would, are yet 
alive; wherefore, that I may preserve them also, for mine 
own purpose, I will take of the branches of this tree, and I 
will graft them in unto them. Yea, I will graft in unto 
them the branches of their mother tree, that I may pre- 
gerve the roots also unto mine own self, that when the 
shall be sufficiently aia perhaps they may bring forth 
good fruit unto me, and 1 may yet have glory in the fruit 
of my vineyard. . no 

And it came to pass that they took from the natural tree 
which had become wild, and grafted in unto the natural 
trees, which ‘also had become wild: and they also took of 
the natural trees which had become wild, and grafted into 
their mother tree. And the Lord of the vineyard said un- 
to the servant, pluck not the-wild branches from the trees, 
save it be those which are most bitter; and in them ye 
ehall graft, according to that which I have said. ` And we 
will nourish again the trees of the vineyard, and we will 
trim up the branches thereof; and we will pluck from the 
trees those branches which are ripened that must perish, 
‘and cast them into the fire. And this I do, that perhaps the 
foots thereof may take strength, because of their good- 
ness; and because of the change of the branches, that the 
good may overcome the evil; and because that I have pro- 
served the natural branches, and the roots thereof; and 
that I have grafted in the natural branches again, into their 
mother tree; and have preserved the roots of their mother 
tree, that perhaps the trees of my vineyard may bring 


BOOK OF 34008. 436 
forth again good fruit; and that I may have joy aguin in 


the fruit of my vineyard; and perhaps that I may rejoicy. 
exceedingly, that I have preserved the roots and the 
branches of the first fruit. Wherefore, go to, and call ser- 
vants, that we may labour diligently with our mights in 
the vineyard, that we may prepare the way, that I may 
bring forth again the natural fruit, which natural fruit is 
‘good, ond the most precious above all other fruit. Where- 
ore, let us goto, and labor with our mights, this last time; 
for behold the end draweth nigh: and this is for the last 
time thet I shall prune my vineyard. Greft inthe branches; 
begin at the last, that they may be first, and that the first 
may be last, and dig about the trees, both old and youn ` 
the first and the last, and the last and the first, that all 
may be nourished once again for the last time. Where- 
fore, dig. about them, and prune them, and dung them once 
more, for the last time: forthe end draweth nigh. And 
if itso be that these last grafts shall grow, and bring 
forth the natural fruit, then shall ye prepare the way for, 
them, that they may grow; and as they begin to grow, ye 
shall clear away the branches which bring forth bitter 
fruit, according to the strength of the good and the size 
thereof; and ye shall not clear away the bad thereof, all 
at once, lest the roots thereof should be too strong for the 
graft, and the ——— shall perish, and I lose the trees 
of my vineyard. For it grieveth me that I should lose the 
trees of my vineyard; wherefore, ye shall clear away the 
bad, according as the good shall grow, that the root and 
the top may be equal in strength, until the good shall over- 
come the bad, the bad be hewn down and cast into the 
fire, that they cumber not the ground of my vineyard; and 
thus will I-sweep away the bad out of my vineyard. And 
the branehes of the natural tree will I graft in again, into 
the natural tree; and the branches of the natural tree will 
I graft into the natural branches of the tree; and-thus will 
I bring them together again, that they shall bring forth the 
natural fruit; and they shall be one. And the bad shall 
be cast away; yea, even out of all the land of my vineyard; 
for behold, only this once will I prune my vineyard. 

And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard sent 
his servant: and the servant went and did as the Lord had 
commanded him, and brought other servants; and they 
were few. And the Lord of the vineyard said unto them, 
go to, and labor in the vineyard, with your mights. For 
behold, this is the last time that I shall nourish my vine- 
yard: for the end is nigh at hand, and the season speedily 
cometh; and if ye labor with your mights with me, ye shall 


136 BOOK OF JAGODI 


have ‘joy in the fruit which I shall lay up unto: myself, 
' against the tine which will soon come. _ 

And it came to pass that the servants did go, and labor 
with their mights; and the Lord of the vineyard labored 
also with them; and they did obey the commandments of 
the Lord of the vineyard, in all things. And there began 
to be the natural fruit again.in the vineyard; and the natu- 
ral branches began to grow and thrive exceedingly; and 
the wild branches began to be plucked off, and to be cast 
away; and they did keep the root and the top thereof equal, 
according to the strength thereof. And thus they labored, 
with all diligence, according to the commandments of the 
Lord of the vineyard, even until the bad had been cast 
away out of fhe vineyard, and the Lord had preserved unto 
himeelf, that the trees had become aguin the natural fruit; 
and they became like unto one bo yi and the fruit were 

ual; and the Lord of the vineyard had preserved unto 
himself the natural fruit, which was most precious unte 
saw from the beginning. 

And it came to pass that when the Lord of the vineyard 
saw that his fruit was good, and that his vineyatd was no 
more corrupt, he called up his servants and said unto them, 
behold, for this last time have we nourished Iny vineyard; 
and thou beholdest that I have done accotding to my will; 
and I have preserved the natural fruit, that it ts kés, even 
like as it was in the bt: Heme and blessed art thou. For 
because ye have been diligent in laboring with me in my 
vineyard, and have kept my commandments, and have 
brought unto me again the natural fruit, that my vineyard 
is no more corrupted, and the bad is cast away, behold, ye 
shall have Py with me, because of the fruit of my vineyard. 
For behold, for a long time will I lay up of the fruit of m 
vineyard unto mine own self, against the season, whic 
speedily cometh; and for the last time have. nourished 
my vineyard, and pruned it, and dug about it, and danged 
it; wherefore I will lay up unto mine own self of the fruit 
for a long time, according to that which I have spoken. 
And when the time cometh that evil fruit shall again come 
into my vineyard, then will I cause the good and the bad 
to be gathered: and the good will I preserve unto myself; 
and the bad will I cast away into its own piace. And then 
cometh the season and the end; and my vineyard will E 
cause to be burned with fire. 


BOOK OF JACOB. ° i% 
CHAPTER IV. - 


Anp now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that 
I would prophesy, behold, this is my prophecy: That the 
things which this prophet Zenos spake, concerning the 
house of Israel, in the which he likened them unto a tame 
olive tree, must surely come to pass. And in the day that 
he shall set his hand again the second time to recover his 
people, is the day, yea, even the last time, that the servants 
of the Lord shall go forth in his power, to nourish and prune 
Ñis vineyard: and after that, the end soon cometh. And 
how blessed are they who have labored diligently in his 
vineyard; and how cursed are they who shall be cast out 
into their own place! And'the world shall be burned with 
fire. And how merciful is our God unto us; for he remem- 
bereth the house of Israel, both roots and branches; and he 
stretches forth his hands unto them, all the day long; and 
they are a stiffnecked, and a gainsaying people; but as ma- 
ny as will not harden their hearts, shall be saved in the 
kingdom of God. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I be- 
geech of you in words of soberness, that ye would repent, 
and come with full purpose of heart, mad cleave unto God 
as he cleaveth unto you. And while his arm of mercy ig 
extended towards you in the light of the day, harden not 
your yearts. Yea, to-day if ye will hear his voice, harden 
not your hearts: for why will ye die? For behold, after ye 
have been nourished by the good word of God all the day 
long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye must be hewn 
down and cast into the fire? Behold, will ye reject these 
words? Will ye reject the words of the prophets? and will 
ye reject all the words which have been spoken concernin 
Christ, after so many have spoken concerning him? an 
deny the good word of Christ, and the power of God, and 
the gift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit? 
and make a mock of the great plau of redemption, which 
hath been laid for you? Know ye not that if ye will do 
these things, that the power of the redemption and the res- 
urrection which is in Christ, will bring you to stand with 
shame and awful guilt before the bar of God? And ac- 
cording to the power of justice, for justice cannot be de» 
nied, ye must go away into that lake of fire and brimstone, 
whose flames are unquenchable,; and whose smoke ascend- 
eth up forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone, 
is endless torment. O then, my beloved brethren, repent 
ye, and enter in at the straight gate, and continue in the 
way which is narrow, until ye shall obtain eternal life. O 
- 12 


iw BOOK OF R008. 

be wise: what can I say more? Finally, I bid you fare- 
well, until I shall meet you before the pleasing bar of God, 
which bar striketh the wicked with awful dread and fear. 
Amen. 


4 o— 


CHAPTER V. 


Anp now it came to pass after some years had passed: 
away, there came a man among the people of Nephi, whose 
name was Sherem. And it came to pass that he began to 
preach among the le, and to declare unto them‘ thet 
there should be no Christ. And he preached many things 
which were flattering unto the people: and this he did that 
he might overthrow the doctrine of Christ. And he labored 
diligently that he might lead away the hearts of the people, 
insomuch that he did lead away many hearts; and he know- 
ing that I, Jacob, had faith in Christ who should come, he 
rene much opportunity that he might come unto me. 
And he was learned, that he had a perfect knowledge of 
the language of the people; whereforeyhe could use much 
flattery, and much power of speech, according to the pow- 
er of the devil. And he had hope to shake me from the 
faith, notwithstanding the many revelations, and the man 
things which I hed seen concerning these things; for 
truly had seen angels, and they had ministered unto me. 
And also, I had heard the voice of the Lord speaking unto 
mein very word, from time to time; wherefore, | could 
not be shaken. 

And it came to pass that he came unto me; and on thig 
wise did he speak unto me, saying: Brother Jacob, I have 
sought much opportunity that I might speak unto you: for 
I have heard and also know, that thou goest about much, 
piang that which ye call the gospel, or the doctrine of 

brist; and ye have led away much of this people, that 
— pervert the right way of God, and keep not the law 
of Moses, which is the right way; and convert the law of 
Moses into the worship of a being, which ye say shall come 
many hundred years hence. And now behold, I, Sherem, 
declare unto you, that thia is — ; for no man know- 
eth of such things: for he cannot teil of things to come. 
And after this manner did Sherem contend against me. But 
behold, the Lord God poured in his spirit into my soul, in- 
somuch that I did confound him in all his words. And X 
seid unto him, deniest thou the Christ who should come} 


DOOR: oF 14008. 


he said, if there should be a Chzist, I would not deny 
s but I know that there is no Christ, neither has been, 
nor ever will be. And I said unto him, believest thou the 
Benard And he said, yea. And I said unto him, then 
ze do not understand them; for they truly testify of Christ, 
ahold, I say unto you, that none of the prophets have 
written, nor poao save they have spoken coneerning 
this Christ. And this is not all: it has been made manifest 
unto me, for I have heard and seen; and it also has been 
made manifest unto me by the power of the Holy Ghoet: 
wherefore, I know if there should be no atonement made, 
all mankind must be lost. 

And it came to pase that he said unto me, shew me 4 
sign by this power of the Holy Ghost, in the which ye know 
s much. And I said unto him, what am I, that I should 
tempt God to shew unto thee a sign, in the thing whicls 
thou knowest to be true? Yet thou wilt deny it, because 
thou art of the devil. Nevertheless, not my will be done; 
bat if God shall smite thee, let that be a sign unto thee that 
he has power, both in heaven and in earth; and also, that 
Christ shall come. And thy will, O Lord, be done, and. 
not mine. 

And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these 
words, the power of the Lord came upon him, insomuch 
that he fell to'the earth. And it came to pass that he was 
nourished for the space of many days. And it came te 
pass that he said unto the people, gather together on the 
morrow, for I shall die; wherefere, I-desire to speak unty 
the people, before I shall die. . 

And it came to pass that on the morrow, the multitude 
were gathered together; and he spake plainly unto. thent,y 
and denied the things which he hed taught them; and con- 
fessed the Christ, and the power of the Holy Ghost, and 
the ministering of angels. And he spake plainly unto them, 
that he had been deceived by the power of the devil. And 
he ey of hell, and of eternity, and of eternal punishment. 
And he said, I fear lest I have committed the unpardonable 
sin, for I have lied unto God: for I denied the Christ, and 
said that I believed the seriptares; and they truly testify 
of him. And because I have thus lied unto God, Í great 
fear lest my case shall be awful: but I confess unto G 

And it came to pase that when he had said these words, 
he could say no more; and he gave up the ghost. And 
when the multitude had witnessed that he spake these 
things as he was about to give up the ghost, they were as- 
wnished exceedingly: insomuch, that the power ef 
tame down upon them,and they were overcome, thet they’ 


140 BOOK OF ENOS. 


feli to the earth. Now, this thing was pleasing unto 'mé, 
Jacob; for I had requested it of my Father who wab in 
heaven: for he had heard my cry, and answered my prayer. 
- And it came to pass that peace and the love of God was 
zestored again among the people; and they searched the 
scriptures; and hearkened no more to: the words-of this 
wicked man. And it came to pass that many means weré 
devised, to reclaim and restore the Lamanites, to the know~ 
ledge of the truth: but it-all were vain; for they delighted 
in wars and bloodsheds; and they had an eternal hatred 

ainst us, their brethren. And they sought by the powet 
of their arms to destroy us continually; wherefore, the peo- 
ple of Nephi did fortify against them with their armies 
and with all their might, trusting in the God and rock 
their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet, conquerors 
of their enemies. 

And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be old; and 
the record of this people being kept on the other plates of 
Nephi, wherefore, I conclude this record, declaring that I 
have written according to the best of my knowledge, by 
saying, that the time passed away with us, and also our 
lives passed away, like as it were unto us a dream, we be- 
ing a lonesome and a solemn people, wanderers, cast out 
ftom Jerusalem; born in tribulation, in a wilderness, and’ 
hated of our brethren, which caused wars and contentions; 
wherefore, we did mourn out our days, i 

And I, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my grave; 
wherefore, I said unto my son Enos, take these plates. And 
I told him the things which my brother Nephi had com- 
manded me; and he promised obedience unto the com- 
mands. And I make an end of my writing upon these 
piacon, which writing has been small; and to the reader I 

id farewell, hoping that many of my brethren may read 
my words, Brethren, adieu. 


—2+o— : 


THE BOOK OF ENOS. 


CHAPTER I. 


Broz, it came to pass that I, Enos knowing my fath- 
er, that he wasa just men: for he taught me in his lan~ 
guage, and also in the nurture and.admonition of the Lord. 

nd blessed be. the name of my-God for it. And I will 
tell you of the wrestle which I had before God, before I 


BOOK OF EOS. 143 


received s remission of my sins: behold I went to hunt 
beasts in the forest; and the words which I had often, 
heard my father speak, concerning eternal life, and the 
joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart. And m 
noul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, ent 
I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication, for 
mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; 
and when the night came, I did still raise my voice 

Ligh, that it reached the heavens, And there came a voice 
unto me seying, Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou 
shalt be blessed. And I, Enos, knew that God could not 
lie; wherefore, my geilt was swept away. And I said, 
Lord, how isitdone? And he said unto me, because of thy 
faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor 
seen. And many years pass away, before he shall mani- 
fest himself in the flesh; wherefore, ge to, thy faith hath 
made thee whole. ; 

Now, it came to pass thet when I had heard these words, 
I began to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the 
Nephites; wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto 
God for them. And while I was thus struggling in the 
spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind 
again, saying, I will visit thy brethren, according to their 
diligence in keeping my commandments. I have given 
unto them this land; and it is a holy land; and I curse it 
not, save it be for the cause of iniquity; wherefore, I will 
visit thy brethren, according as I have said; and their 
transgressions will I bring down with serrow upon their 
own heads. And after I, Enos had heard these worda, 
my faith began to be unshaken in the Lord; and I prayed 
unto him with many long strugglings for my brethren, the 
Lamanites. 


And it came to pess, that after I had prayed, and labored 
with all diligence, the Lord said unto me, I will grant unto 
thee mata rap, o thy desires, because of thy faith. And 
now behold, this was the desire which I desired of him: 
That ifitshould so be, that my people, the Nephites, should 
fall into transgression, and by any means be destroyed, 
and the Lamanites should not be destroyed, that the Lord 
God would preserve a record of my peoples the Nephites; 
sven if it so be, by the power of his holy arm, that it might 
be brought forth, at some future day, unto the Lemanites, 
that aps they might be brought unto salvation: for at 
the present, our strugglings were vain, in restoring them 
to the true faith. — — i in their a if 
it were possible, they w troy our rec us$ 
and, also, all the traditions of our fathers. 


142 ` BOOK OF. ENOS. : 


Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able to 
—— our recorde, | cried unto him continually; for ho 
ad said unto me, whatsoever thing ye shall ask in faith, 
believing that ye shail receive in the name of Christ, ye 
shall receive it. And I had faith, and I did cry unto God, 
that be would preserve the records; and he covenanted 
with me that he would bring them forth unto the Laman- 
ites, in his own due time. And I, Enos, knew it would 
be according to the covenant which he had made; where- 
fore, my soul did rest. And the Lord said unto me, thy 
fathers have also required of me this thing; and it shall 
be done unto them according to their faith, for their faith 
was like unto thine. U 

And now it came to pass, that I, Enos, went about amon 
the people of Nephi, prophesying of things to come, an 
testifying of the things which I had heard and seen. 
And I bear record that the people of Nephi did seek dili- 

ently to restore the Lamanites unto the true faith in God. 

ut our labors were vain; their hatred was fixed, and they 
were led by their evil nature, that they became wild, and 
ferocious, and a bloodthirsty people; full of idolatry, and 
filthiness; feeding upon beasts of prey, dwelling in tents, 
and wandering about in the wilderness, with a short skin 
girdle about their loins, and their heads shaven; and their 
skill was in the bow, and in the cymeter, and the axe. 
And many of them did eat nothing save it was raw meat; 
and they were continually seeking to destroy us. 

And it came to pass that the people of Nephi did till the 
land, and raise all manner of grain, and of fruit,.and flocks 
of herds, and flocks of all manner of cattle, of every kind, 
and goats, and wild goats, and also many horses. And 
there were exceeding many prophets among us. And the 
people were a stiff-necked people, hard to undesstand. And 
there was nothing save it was exceeding harshness, preach- 
ing and prophesying of wars, and contentions, and de- 
structions, and continually reminding them of death, and 
the duration of eternity, and the judgments and the power 
of God; and all these things stirring them up continually, 
to keep them in the fear of the Lord. I say there was 
nothing short of these things, and exceeding great plain- 
ness of speech, would keep them from going down speedi- 
ly to destruction. And after this manner do I write cons 
cerning them. And Isaw wars between the Nephites and 
Lamantites, in the course of my days. . 

And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an hun- 
dred and seventy and nine years had passed away from the 
time that our father Lehi left Jer m. And asl saw 


BOOK OF J£ROW. 143 


that I must soon go down to my grave, having been wrought 
upon by the power of.God that I must preach and prophe- 
sy unto this people, and declare the word according to the 
truth which is in Christ. And I have declared it, in all 
my days; and have rejoiced in it, above that of the world. 
And I soon go to the placo of my rest, which is with my 
Redeemer; for I know that in him I shall rest: and I re- 
joice in the day when my mortal shall put on immortality, 
and shall stand before him: then shall I see his face with 
pleasure, and he will say unto me, come unto me ye bless- | 
ed, there is a place prepared for you in the mansions of 
my FATHER. Amen. l 


Oh Ca 


THE BOOK OF JAROM. 
CHAPTER I. 


Now behold, I Jarom, write a few words, according to 
the commandment of my father Enos, that our genealogy 
may be kept. And as these plates are small, and as 
these things are written for the intent of the benefit of our 
brethren, the Lamanites, wherefore, it must needs be that 
I write a little; but 1 shall not write the things of my pro- 
phesying, nor of my revelations, For what could I write 
more than my fathers have written? For have not they 
revealed the plan of salvation? I say unto you, yea; and 
this sufficeth me. 

Behold, it is expedient that much should be done amon 
this people, because of the hardnsss of their hearts, and 
the pe ness of. their ears, and the blindness of their minds, 
and the stiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is ex- 
ceeding merciful unto them, and has not as yet swept them 
off from the face of the land, And there are many amon 
us who have many revelations: for they are not all atiff- 
necked. And as many as are not stiff necked, and have 
faith, have communion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh 
manifest unto the children of men, according to their faith. 

And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, 
und the people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land. 
They observed to keep the law of Moses, and the Sabbath 
da holy unto the Lord. And they profaned not; neither 
did they blaspheme. And the laws of the land were ex- 
eeding strict. And they were scattered upon much of 
the face of the land; and the Lamanites also. And they 

æ 


bes BOOK OF JARON: . 


were exceeding more numerous than were they of the Nac 
phites; and they loved murder, and would drink the blood 
And i hat th 

nd it came to pasa that they came many times against 
us, the Nephites, to battle. But our kings and our leaders 
were mighty men in the faith of the Lord: and they taught 
the people the wyi ofthe Lord; wherefore, we withstood 
the Lamanites, and swept them away, out of our lands, and 
began to fortify our cities, or whatsoever place of our in- 
heritance. And we multiplied exceedingly, and 
apon the face of the land, and became exceeding rich in 
gold, and in silver, and in — things, and in fine work. 
manship of wood, in buildings, and in machinery, and also 
in iron, and copper, and brass, and steel, making all man- 
ner of tools of every kind to till the ground, and weapons 
of war; yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the quiver, and 
the dart, and the javelin, and all preparations for war; and 
thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites, they did not 
prosper againet us. But the word of the Lord was verified, 
which he spake unto our fathers, saying, That inasmuch 
as ye will keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in 
the land. - : 

And it came to pass-that the prophets of the Lord did 
threaten the people of Nephi, according to the word of God, 
that if they did not keep the commandments, but should 
fell into transgression, they should be destroyed from off 
the face of the land; wherefore, the prophets, and the 
priests, and the teachers, did labor diligently, exhorting 
with all long suffering, the people to diligence; teaching 
the law of Moses, and the intent for which it was given; 

reuading them to look forward unto the Messiah, and 

elieve in him to come, as though he already was. And 
after this manner did they teach them. And it came to 
pass that by so doing, they kept them from being destroy- 
ed upon the face of the land: for they did prick their hearts 
with the word, continually stirring them up unto repent- 
ance. 

And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and 
eight years had passed away, after the manner of wars, 
and contentions, and dissensions, for the space of much 
of the time. And I, Jarom, do not-write more, for the 
plates are small. But behold, my brethren, ye can go to 
the other plates of Nephi: for behold, upon them the re- 
tord of our wars ate engraven, according to the oe of - 
the kings, or those which they cause to be written. And f 
deliver these platesintothe hands of my son Omni, that the 
may be kept according to the comman ts of my fathera, 





BOOK OF OMNI. 145 


e 
= 


THE BOOK OF OMNI. 
CHAPTER I. | 


BzuoLn, it came to pass that I, Omni, being commanded 
by my father Jarom, that I should write somewhat upon 
these plates, to preserve our genealogy; wherefore, in m 
diys; I would that ye should know that I fought much with 
the sword, to preserve my people, the Nephites, from falling 
into the hands of their énemies, the Lamanites. But be- 
hold, I, of myself, am a wicked man, and I have not kept 
the statutes and the commandments of the Lord, as I ought 
to have done. E . 

, And it came to. pass that two hundred and seventy and 
pix years had passed away, and we had many seasons of 
peace; and we had many seasons of serious war and blood- 
shed. Yea, and in fine, two hundred and eighty and two 
yeats had passed away, and I had kept these plates accord- 
ing.to the commandments of my fathers; and I conferred 
them upon my son Amaron. And I make an end. 

And now I, Amaron, write the things whatsoever I write, 
which are few, in the book of my father. Behold, it came 
to pass that three’ hundred and twenty — had passed 
away, and the more wicked part of the Nephites were de- 
sttoyed : for the Lord would not suffer, after he had led 
them out of the land of Jerusalem, and kept and preserved 
them from falling into the hands of their enemies; yea, he 
would not suffer that the words should not be verified, 
which he spake unto our fathers, saying, that inasmuch as 
ye will not keep my commandments, ye shall not prosper 
intheland. Wherefore, the Lord did visit them in great 
judgment; nevertheless, he did spare the righteous, that 
they should not perish, but did deliver them out of the 
hands of their enemies. And it came to pass that-I did 
deliver the plates unto my brother Chemish. f 

Now I, Chemish, write what few things I write, in the 
same book with my brother: for behold, I saw the last 
which he wrote, that he wrote it with his own hand; and 
he wrote it in the day that be delivered them untome. And 
after this manner we keep the records, for it is accordin 
to the commandments of our fathers. ` And I make an end. 

Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish. Behold, 
it came to pass thet I saw mach war and contention be- 

1 


Aa 


146 BOOK OF OMNI. 

tween my people, the Nephites, and the Lamanites; and I, 
with mine own sword, have taken the lives of many of the 
Lamanites, in the defence of my brgthren. And behold, 
the record of this people is engraven upon plates which is 
had by the kings, according to the generations; and I know 
of no revelation, gave that which haé been written, neither 
prophecy; wherefore, that which is sufficient is written. 
And I make an end. 

Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom. Behold, 
I will speak ‘unto, you somewhat concerning Mosiah, who 
was made king over theliand of Zarahemla: for behold, 
he being warned of the Lord that he should flee out of the 
land of Nephi, and as many as would hearken unto the 
voice of the Lord, should also depart out of the land with 
him, into the wilderness.- And it came to pass that he did 
according as the Lord had commended him. And they de- 
parted out of the land into the wilderness, as many as 
would hearken unto the voice of the Lord; and they were 
led by many preachings and prophesyings. And they were 
admonished continually by the word of God: and they 
were led by the power of his arm, through the wilderness, 
‘until they came down into the land whichis called the 
land of Zarahemla. And they discovered a people, who 
were called the people of Zarahemla. Now, there was 

reat rej — among the people of Zarahemla; and also, 

arahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because the Lord had 
sent the people of Mosiah with the plttes of brass which 
contained the record of the Jews. 

Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the 
people of Zarahemla, came out from Jerusalem, at the time 
that Zedekiash, king of Judah, was carried away captive 
into Babylon. And they journeyed in the wilderness, and 
were brought by the hand of the Lord, across the great 
waters, into the land where Mosiah discovered them; and 
they had dwelt there from that time forth. Andat the time 
that Mosiah discovered them, they had become exceedin 
numerous. Nevertheless, they had had many wars and 
serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from time 
totime; and their language had become corrupted; and 
they had brought no records with them: and they denied 
the being of their Creator; and Mosiah, nor the people of 
Mosiah, could understand them. 

But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should 
be taught'in his language.. And it came to pass that after 
they were taught in the language of Mosiah, Zarahemla 
gave a genealogy of his fathers, according to his memory ; 
and they are written, but not in these plates: a 





BOOK OF OMNI. 147 


And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla, and 
of Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was appointed 
to be their king, And it came to pass in the days of Mo- 
eiah, there was a large stone brought unto him, with 
engravings on it; and he did interpret the engravings, by 
the gift and power of God. 

And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and the 
slain of his people. And Coriantumr was discovered by 
the people of Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the 
epace of nine moons. It also spake a few words concern- 
ing hisfathers. And his first parents came out from the taw- 
er, at the time the Lord confounded the language of the peo- 
ple; and the severity of the Lord fell upon them, accord- 
ing to his judgments, which are just; and their bones lay 
scattered in the land northward. 

Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days of Mosiah; 
and I have lived to see his death; and Benjamin, his son, 
Teigneth in his stead. And behold, I have seen in the days 
of kog Benjamin; a serious war, and much bloodshed, 
between thé Nephites‘and the Lamanites. But behold, the 
Nephites did obtain much advantage over them; yea, in- 
somuch that king Benjamin did drive them out ofthe land 
of Zarahemla. ; l 

And it came to pass that I began to be old; and, having 
no seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a just man be- 
fore the Lord, wherefore, I shall deliver up these plates un- 
to him, exhorting all men to come unto God, the Holy One 
of Israel, and believe.in prophesying, and in revelations, 
and in the ministering of angels, and in the gift of speak- 
ing with tongues, and in the gift of interpreting languages, 
and in all things which are good: for there is nothin 
which is good, save it comes from the Lord; and that which 
is evil,,cometh from the devil. i ; 

.And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should 
come unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and par- 
take of his salvation, and the power of his redemption. 
Yea, come unto him, and offer your whole souls as an 
offering unto him, and continue in fasting and praying, 
and SERU to the end; and as the Lord liveth, ye will be 
saved. 

And now, I would speak somewhat concerning a certain 
number who went up into the wilderness, to return to the 
land of Nephi: for there wasa large number who were ` 
desirous to possess the land of their inheritance; wherefore, 
they went up into the wilderness. And their leader being 
a strong and a mighty man, and a atiffnecked man, where- 
fore he caused a contention among them; and they were 


148 WORDS OF MORMON. 


all slain, save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned 
again to the land of Zarahemla. 

And it came to pass that they also took others, to a con- 
siderable number, and took their journey again into the 
wilderness. And I, Amaleki, had a brother, who also went 
with them; and I have not sinee known concerning them. 
And I am abont to lie downin my grave; and these plates 
are full. And I make an end of my speaking. 


Ota 
THE WORDS OF MORMON. 


CHAPTER I. 


Anp now I, Mormon, being about to deliver up the re- 
cord which I have been making, into the hands of my son 
Moroni, behotd, I have witnessed almost all the destruc- 
tion of my people, the Nephites. And it is many hundred 
years after the coming of Christ, that I deliver these re- 
cords into the hands of my son: and it supposeth me that 
he will witness the entire destruction of my people. But 
may God grant that he may survive them, that he may 
write somewhat concerning them, and somewhat concern- 
ing Christ, that perhaps some day it may profit them. 

And now, I speak somewhat concerning that which I 
have written: for after I had made an abridgment from 
the plates of Nephi, down to the reign of this king Benja- 
min, of whom Amaleki spake, I searched among the re- 
cords which had been delivered into my hands, and I found 
these plates, which contained this shall account of the 
prophets, from Jacob, down to the reign of this king Ben- 
jamin: and also many of the words of Nephi. And the 
things which are upon these plates pleasing me, be- 
cause of the prophecies of the — Christ; and my 
fathers knowing that many of them have been fulfilled; 
yea, and I also know that as many things as have been 

rophesied concerning us down to this day, have been ful- 

lled; and as many as go beyond this day, muat surel 
come to pass; wherefore, I chose these things, to finis 
my record upon them, which remainder of my record I 
shall take from the plates of Nephi; andI cannot write 
the hundredth part of the things of my people. 

But behold, f shall take these plates, which contain these 
prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the re- 
mainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and 


WORDS OF MORRON, 149' 


Iknow they will be choice unto my brethren. AndI do 
this for a wise purpose; for thusit whispereth me, accord- 
ing to the workings of the spirit of the Lord which is in 
me. And now, I do not know all things: but the Lord | 
knoweth alt things which are to come; wherefore, he 
Worketh in me to do according to his will. And my pray- 
er to God, is concerning my brethren, that they may once 
— come to the knowledge of God; yea, the redemption 
of Christ; that they may onfe again be a delightsome 
eople. : 
and now I, Mormon, proceed to finish out my record, 
which I take from the plates of Nephi; and I make it ac- 
cording ta the Kicwledse and the understanding which 
God has given me. Wherefore, it came to pasa that after 
Amaleki had delivered up these plates into the hands of 
king Benjamin, he took them and put them with the other 
plates, which contained records which had been handed 
down by the kings, ftom generation to generation, until 
the days of king Beniamin: and they were handed down 
from king Benjamin, from generation to generation, until 
they have fallen into my hands. And I, Mormon, pray to 
God that they may be preserved, from this time hence- 
forth. And I know that they will be preserved: for there 
are great things written upon them, out of which my peo- 
le and their brethren, shall be judged at the great and 
ast day, according to the word of God which is written. 
‘And now, concerning thisking Benjamin: He had some- 
what contentions among his own people. And it came to 
pass also, that the armes of the Lamanites came down . 
out of the land of Nephi, to battle against his people.— 
But behold, king Benjamin gathered together his armies, 
and he did stand against them: and he did fight withthe , 
sttength‘of his own arm, with thesword of Laban; and 
in the strength of the ‘Lord thcy did contend against their 
efiemies, until they had slain many thousands of the La- 
mianites. And it came to pass that they did contend 
against the Lamanites, until they had driven them out of 
ali the lands of their inheritance. 
_And it came to pass that after there had been false christs, 
and their mouths had been shut, and they punished ac- 
cording to their crimes; and after there had been false 
prophets, and false preachers and teachers among the peo- 
ple, and all these having been punished according to their 
crimes; and after there having been much contentions and 
many dissentions, away unto the Lamanites, behold, it 
came to pass that king Benjamin, with the assistance of , 
13* i 


150. _ BOOK OF MOSIAR.. 


the holy prophets who were among his peoples for ber. 
hold, king Benjamin wasa holy man, and he did reign 
over his people in righteousness. And there were many 
holy men in the land; and they did speak the word of 
. With power and with authority; and they did use 
much sharpness because of the stifineckednese of the peo» 
le; wherefore, with the help of these, king Benjamin, , 
J laboring with all the might of his body and the faculty, . 
of his whole soul, and also the prophets, did once more , 
establish peace in the land. 


+o 


THE BOOK OF MOSIAH, | 
CHAPTER I. 


Anp now there was no more contention in all the land . 
of Zarahemla, among all the people who belonged to ki 
Benjamin, so that king Benjamin had continual peace a 
the remainder of his days. And it came to pass that he . 
had three sons; and he called their names Mosiah, and 
Helorum, and Helaman. And he caused that they should 
be taught in all the language of his fathers, that thereby 
they might become men of understanding; and that they 
might know concerning the prophecies which had been 
spoken by the mouths of their fathers, which were deli- . 
vered them by the hand of the Lord. And he also taught 
them concerning the records which were engraven on the . 
plates of brass, saying, my sons, I would that ye should 
remember, that were it not for these plates, which contain , 
these records and these commandments, we must have suf- 
fered in ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing. 
the mysteries of God: for it were not are that our fas , 
ther Lehi could have remembered all these things, to . 
have taught them to his children, except it were for the , 
help of these plates: for he having been taught in the lan- 
guage of the Egyptians, therefore he could read these en- 
grevings, and teach them to his children, that thereby . 

ey could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling | 
the commandments of God, even down to this present 
time, Isay unto you, my sons, were it not for these 
things, which have been kept and preserved by the hand 
of God, that we might read and understand of his mys- . 
teries, and have his commandments always before our _ 
eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled in unbes — 


BOOK of MOBSIAH. ` 153 ° 


lief, and we should have been like unto our brethren, the 
Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, 
or even donot believe them when they are taught them, 
because of the traditions of their fathers, which are not 
correct. O my sons, I would that ye should remember 
that these sayings are true; and also, that these records 
are' frue. And behold, also the plates of Nephi, which 
contain the records and thé sayings of our fathers from 
the tinre they left Jerusalem, until now; and they are 
true; and we can know of their surety, because we have 
them before our eyes. And now, my sons, I would that 
ye should remember to search them diligently, that ye may 
profit thereby; and I would that ye should keep the come 
mandments of God, that ye may prosper in the land, ac- 
cording to the promises which the Lord made unto our fa- 
thers. And many more things did king Benjamin teach 
his sons, which are not written in this book. 

And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made 
an end of teaching his sons, that he waxed old; and he 
saw that he must very soon go the way of all the earth; 
therefore, he thought it expedient that he should confer - 
the kingdom upon one of his sons. Therefore, he had Mo- 
sish brought before him; and these are the words which 
he spake unto him, saying: My son, I would that ye should 
make a proclamation throughout all this land, among all 
this people, or the peopl of Zarahemla, and the people 
of Mosiah who dwell in the land, that thereby they may 
be gathered together: for on the morrow, I shall proclaim 
unto this my people, out of mine own mouth, that thou 
art a king, and a ruler over this people, whom the Lord 
our God hath given us. And moreover, I shall give this 

ple a name, that thereby they may be distinguished 
above all the people which the Lord God hath brought out 
of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do, because they have 
been a diligent people in keeping the commandments of 
the Lord. And I give unto them a name, that never shall 
be blotted out, except it be through transgression. Yea, 
and moreover I say unto you, that if this highly favored 
people of the Lord should fall into transgression, and be- 
come a wicked and an adulterous people, that the Lord will 
deliver them up, that thereby they become weak, like un- 
to their brethren; and he will no more preserve them, by 
his matchless and marvelous power, as he has hitherto pre- 
served our fathers. For I say unto you, that if he had not 
extended his arm in the preservation of our fathers, they 
must have fallen into the hands of the Lamanites, and be- 
come victims to their hatred. 


\ 
182 ' BOOK OF .MOSIAH. © 


And it came to pass that after king Benjamin hed made ` 
an end of these sayings to his son, that he gave him charge ` 
concerning all the affairs of the kingdom. And moreover, 
he also gave him charge concerning the records which ‘ 
were engraven on the plates of brass; and also, the plates 
of Nephi; and also, the sword of Laban, and the. ball or 
director, which led our fathers through the wilderness, . 
which was prepared by the hand of the Lord, that thereby 
they might be led, every one according to the heed and 
diligence which they gave unto him. Therefore, as they ` 
were unfaithful, they did not prosper nor progress in their’ 
journey, but were driven tack, and incurred the displeas- 
ure of God upon them; and therefore, they were smitten | 
with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them up in remem- 

- brance of their duty. ` l 

.And now, it came to pass that Mosiah went and did as 
his father had commanded him, and proclaimed unto all . 
the i who were in the land of Zerahemla, that there- 

by they might gather themselves together, to gó up to tha 
temple, to hear the words which his father should‘ speak 
unto them. p 

‘And it came to pass that after Mosiah had done as his 
father had commanded him, and had made a proclamation 
throughout all the land, that the people gathered themselves 
together throughout al) the land, that they might go up to 
the temple to hear the words which king benjamin should 
speak unto them. And there were a great number, even 
so many that they did not number them; for they had mul- ’ 
tiplied exceedingly, and waxed great in the land. And 
they also took of the firstlings of their flocks, that they | 
might offer sacrifice and burnt offerings, according to the, 
law of Moses; and also, that they might give thanks to the 
Lord their God, who had brought them out of the land of 
Jerusalem, and who had delivered them out of the hands 
of their enemies, and had appointed just men to be their 
teachers, and also, a just man to be their king, who had 
established peace in the land of Zarahemla, and who had 
taught them to keep the. commandments of God, that they 
might rejoice, and be filled with love towards God, and all 
men. 

And it came to pass that when they came sp to the tem- 
ple, they pitched their tents round about, every man ac- 
cording to his family, consisting of his wife, and his sons, 
and his daughters, and their sons, and their daughters, from . 
the eldest down to the youngest, every family being sepa- 
rate, one from another; and they pitched their tents round 
about the temple, every man having his tent with the doar 


a 


——— ————————— 


BOOK OF MOSIAN. 153 


thereof towards the temple, that thereby they might remain 
in their tents, and hear the words which. king Benjamin 
should speak unto them; for the multitude being so great, 
that king Benjamin could not teach them all within the 
walls of the temple; therefore he caused a tower to be 
erected, that thereby his people might hearthe words which 
he should speak unto them. — 

And it came to pass that he began to speak to his peo le 
from the tower; and they could not all hear his words, * 
cause of the greatness of the multitude; therefore, he caus- 
ed that the words which þe spake, should be written and 
sent forth among those that were not under the sound of 
his voice, that they might also receive his words, And 
these are the words which he spake and caused to be writ- 
ten, saying: My brethren, all ye that have assembled 
yourselves together, you thut can hear my words which I 
shall speak unto you this day; for I have not commanded 
you to come up hither to trifle with the’ words which I 
shall speak, but that you should hearken unto me, and 
open your ears that T may hear, and yonr hearts that yo 
may understand, and your minds that the mysteries of God 
may be unfolded to your view. I have not commanded you 
to come up hither, that yeshould fear me, or that ye should 
think that I, of myself, am more than a mortal man; but 
I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of infirmities 
in body and mind; yet, as ? have been chosen by this peo- 
ple, and consecrated by my father, and was suffered by the 

and of the Lord that I should be a ruler, and a king over 
this people; and have been kept and preserved by his 
matchless power, to serye thee with all the might, mind, 
and strength which the Lord hath granted unto me; I say 
unto you, that as I have been suffered to spend my days in 
your service, even up to this time, and have not sought 
gold nor silver, nor any manner of riches of you; neither 
have I suffered that ye should be confined in dungeons, 
nor that ye should make slaves one of another, or that ye 
should murder, or plunder, or steal, or commit adultery, 
or even! have not suffered that ye should commit any man- 
ner of wickedness, and have taught you that ye should 
keep the commandments of the Lord, in all things which 
he hath commanded you; and even I, myself, have labored 
with mine own hands, that I might serve you, and that ye 
thould not be laden with taxes, and that there should no- 
thing come upon you which was grievous to be borne; and 
of all these things which I have spoken, ye yourselves are 
vitnesses this day. Yet, my brethren, I have not done 
these things that I might boast, neither do I tell these things 


154 BOOK OF MOSIAH. l 
that theréby Imight accuse you; but I tell you these things 
that yó may know that I can answer a clear conscience 
before God this day. Behold, I say unto you, that because 
I said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, 
I do not desire to boast, for Í have only been in the service 
of God. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may 
learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the 
service of your fellow beings, ye are only in the service of 
our God. Behold, ye have called me your king; and if 
, whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then had 
not ye ‘ought to labor to serve one another? And behold, 
also, if I, whom ye call your king, who has spent his days 
in your service, and yet has been in the service of God, 
doth merit any thanks from you, O how had you ought to 
thank your heavenly King! I say unto you, my brethren, 
that if you should render all the thanke and praise which 
veut whole souls have power to possess, to that God who 
as crefted you, and has kept and preserved you, and has 
caused thet ye should rejoice, cad has granted that ye 
should live in peace one with another; I say unto you, that 
if ye should serve him who has created you from the be- 
ginning, and art preserving you from day to day, by lend- 
ing you breath, that re may live and move, and do accord- 
ing to your own will, and even supporting you from one 
moment to another; I say, if ye should serve him with all 
your whole soul, yét ye would be unprofitable servants. 
And behold, all that he requireg of you, is to keep his com- 
mandments; and he has promised you that if ye would 
keep his commandments, ye should. prosper in the land; 
and he never doth vary from that which he hath said; there- 
fore, if ye do keep his commandments, he doth bless you, 
and prosper you. . 
And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and 
anted unto you your lives, for which ye are indebted unto 
im. And secondly: He doth require that ye should do 
as he hath commanded you, for which if ye do, he doth 
immediately bless you; and therefore, he hath paid you. 
And ye are still indebted unto him; and are, and will be, 
forevet and ever; therefore, of what have ye to boast? And 
now I ask, can ye say aught of yourselves? I answer you, 
nay. Ye cannot say that ye are even as much as the dust 
of the earth: yet ye were created of the dust of the earth : 
but behold, it belongeth to him who created you. And I, 
even I, whom ye call your king, am no better than ye your- 
selves are; for I am also of the dust. And ye behold that 
am old, and am about to yield up this mortal frame to ita 
mother earth; therefore, as I said unto you that I had serv- 


`Yo 


S A ER Oe e 


BOOL OF MOSIAH. 155 


ed — walking with a clear conscience before God, even 
so 1 at this time have caused that ye should assemble your- 
selves together, tliat I might be found blameless, and that 
your blood should not come upon me, when I shall stand 
to be judged of God of the things whereof he hath coms 
manded me concerning you. I s#y unto you, that I have 
caused that ye should assemble yourselves together, that I 
might rid my garments of your blood, at this period of time 
when I am about to go down to my grave, that I might go 
down in peace, and my immortal spirit may join the choirs 
above in singing the praises of a just God. And moreover, 
I say unto you, that I have caused that ye should assemble 
yourselves together, that I might declare unto you that I 
can no longer be your teacher, nor your king; for even at 
this time, my whole frame doth tremble exceedingly, while 
attempting to speak unto you; but the Lord God doth sup- 
port me, and hath suffered me, that I should speak unto 
you, and hath commanded me, that I should declare unto 
you this day,’ that my son Mosiah, is a king and a ruler 
over you. , 

And now, my brethren, I would that ye should do as ye 
have hitherto done. As ye have kept my commandments, 
and also the commandments of my father,. and have pros- 
pered, and have been kept from falling into the hands of ° 
your enemies, even so if ye shall keep the commandments 
of my son, or the commandments of God, which shall be 
delivered unto you by him, ye shall prosper inthe land, 
and your enemies shall have no power over you. But O 
my people, beware lest there shall arise contentions among 
you, and ye list to obey the evil spirit, which was spoken 
of by my father Mosiah. For behgld, there is a wo pro- 
nounced upon him who listeth to obey that spirit; for if he 
listeth to obey him, and remaiweth and dieth in his sins, 
the same drinketh damnation to his own soul; for he re- 
ceiveth for his wages án everlasting punishment, having 
transgressed the law‘of God, contrary to his own know- 
ledge. I say unto you, that there are not any among you, 
except it-be your little children, that have not been taught 
concerning these things, but what knoweth that ye are 
eterntlly indebted to zon heavenly Father, to render to him 

1! that you have, and are, and also have been taught, con- 
erning the records which contain the prophecies which 
tmave been spoken by the holy prophets, even down to the 
time our er Lehi left Jerusalem: and also, all that has 


- been spoken by our fathers, until now. And behold, also, 


they spake that which was commanded them of the Lords 
therefore, they are just and true. t 


156 BOOK OF MOSIAN. 


And now, I say unto you, my brethren, that after yehtve 
known and have been taught all these things, if ye should 
transgress, and go contrary to that which has been spoken, 
that ye do withdraw yourselves from the Spirit of the Lord, 
that it may have no place in you to guide you in wisdom’s 
paths, that‘ye may be blessed, prospered, and preserved. I 
gay unto you, that the man that doeth this, the same cometh 
out in open rebellion against God; therefore he listeth to 
obey the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all right- 
eousness; therefore, the Lord has no place in him, for he 
dwelleth not in unholy temples. Therefore, if that man 
repenteth not, and remaineth and dieth an enemy to God, 
the demands of divine justice doth awaken his immortal 
soul toa lively sense of his own guilt, which doth cause 
him to shrink from the presence of the Lord, and doth fll 
his breast with guilt, and pain, and anguish, which is like 
an unquenchable fire, whose flames ascendeth up forever 
and ever. And now I say unto yon, that mercy hath no 
claim on that man; therefore, his final doom ie to endure a 
never — torment. 

O all ye old men, and also ye young men, and you little 
children, who can understand my words, (for I have spo- 
ken plain unto you, that ye might understand.) I pray that 
ye should awake to a remembrance of the awful situation 
of those that have fallen into transgression; and moreover, 
I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and 
happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. 
For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal 
and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end, wi 
are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell wit 
God in a state of never ending happiness. O remember, 
remember that these things are true; for the Lord God hath 
spoken it. ; 

And again my brethren, I would call your attention, for! 
have somewhat more to speak unto you: for behold, I have 
oF to tell you, concerning that which is to come; and 
the things which I shall tell you, are made known unto me, 
by an angel from God. And he said unto me, awake; and I | 
awoke, and behold, he stood before me. And he said unto 
me, awake, and hear the words which I shall tell thee: fot, 
. behold, I am come to declare unto you the glad — 

d hat 





great joy. For the Lord hath heard thy prayers, an 
Judged of thy righteousness, and hath sent me fo declar 
unto thee that thou mayest rejoice; and that thou mayest 
declare unto thy people, that they may also'be filled with joys 
For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with 
power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, andie 


| 





Book OF MOSIAH: Fót 


fom all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heas 
ven, among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabs 
ernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, workin 
` mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, 
causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, 
and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases; 
and he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell 
in the hearts of the children of men. And lo, he shall suf- 
fer temptations, and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fa- 
tigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be unto 
death; for behold, blopd cometh from every pore, so great 
shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abomina- 
tions of his people, And he shall be called Jesus Christ, 
the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Ore- 
ator of all things, from the beginning; and his mother shall 
be called Mary. And lo, he cometh unto his own, that 
salvation might come unto the children of men, even through 
faith on his name; and even after all this, they shall con- 
sider him a man, and say thét he hath a devil, and shall 
scourge him, and shall crucify him. And he shall rise the 
third day from the dead; and behold, he stendeth to judge 
the world. And behold, all these things are done, that a 
righteous judgment might come upon the children of men. 
For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the sins of those 
who have fallen by the transgression of Adam, who have 
died, not knowing the will of God concerning them, or 
who have ignorantly sinned. But wo, wo unto him who 
knoweth that he rebelleth againstGod; forsalvation cometh 
to none such, except it be through repentance and faith on 
the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord God hath sent his 
holy prophets among all the children of men to declare 
these things to every kindred, nation, and tongue, that 
thereby whosoever should believe that Christ should come, 
the same might receive remission of their sins, and rejoice 
with exceeding great joy, even as though he had already 
come among them. Yet thé Lord God saw that his pros 
were a stiffnecked people, and he appointed unto them a 
law, even the law of Moses. And miany signs, and wan- 
ders, and types, and shadows shewed he unto them, con- 
cerning his coming: and also holy prophets spake unto 
them concerning his coming: and yet they hardened theirt 
hearte, and understood not that the law of Moses availeth 
nothing, except it were'through the atonement of his blood’; 
imd even if it were possible that little children could sin, 
they could not be saved; but I say unto you, they sre bless- 
ed; for behold asin Adam, or by nature they fall, even so 
i 14 


158 BOOK OF MOSIAI. 


the blood of Christ atoneth for their sins. And moreover, 
I aay unto you, that there shall be no other name given, 
nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come 
unto the children of ‘men, only in and through the name of 
Christ, the Lord Omnipotent. For behold, he judgeth, and 
his judgment is just, and the infant perisheth pot, that di- 
eth in his infancy; but, men drink damnation to their own 
souls, except they humble themselves, and become as lit- 
tle children, and believe that salvation was, and is, and is 
to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ, the 
Lord Omnipotent: for the natural man is an enemy to God, 
and has been, from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever 
and ever; butifhe yields to the enticingsof the Holy Spirit, 
and putteth off the natural man, and becometh a saint, 
through the atonement of Christ, the Lord, and becometh 
as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, 
willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to 
inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father. 
And moreover, I say unto you, that the time shall come, 
when the knowledge of a Savior shall spread throughout 
every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. And behold, 
when that time cometh, none shall be found blameless be- 
fore God, except it be little children, only through repent- 
ance and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent; 
and even at this time, when thou shalt have taught th 
` people the things which the Lord thy God hath command- 
ed thee, even then are they found no more blameless in 
the sight of God, only according tothe words which I 
have spoken unto thee. 
And now, I have spoken the words which the Lord God 
hath commanded me. And thus saith the Lord: They 
shall stand as a bright testimony against this people, at the 
judgment day; whereof, they shal be judged, every man, 
according to his works, whether they be good, or whether 
they be evil; and if they be evil, they are consigned toan 
awful view of their own guilt and abominations, — 
doth cause them toshrink from the presence of the Lord, 
into a state of misery and endless torment, from whence 
they can no more return: therefore, they have drunk dam- 
nation to their own souls. Therefore, they have drunk out 
of the cup of the wrath of God, which justice could no 
more deny unto them, than it could deny that Adam should 
fall, because of his partaking of the forbidden fruit; there- 
fore, mercy could haveclaim on them no more forever. And 
their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flameg 
are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever 
and ever. Thus hath the Lordcommandedme. Amen, 


BOOK OF MOSIAH. 159 
CHAPTER II. 


AND now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had 
made an end of speaking the words which had been deli- 
vered unto him by the angel of the Lord, that he cast his 
eyes round about on the multitude, and behold they had 
fallen to the earth, for the fear of the Lord had come upon 
them; and they had viewed themselves in theirowncar- . 
nal state, even less than the dust of the earth. And the 
all cried aloud with one voice, saying, O have mercy, and 
apply the atoning blood of Christ, that we may receive 
forgiveness of our sins, and our hearts may be purified: 
for we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who cre- 
ated heaven and earth, and all things, who shall come . 
down among thẹ children of men. ' 

And it came to pass that after they had spoken these 
words, the spirit of the Lord came. upon them, and the 
were filled with joy, having received a remission of their 
sins, and having peace of conscience, because of the ex- 
ceeding faith which they had in Jesus Christ who should 
come, according to the words which king Benjamin had 
‘spoken unto them. And king Benjamin again opened his 

mouth, and began to speak unto them, saying, my friends 
and my brethren, my kindred and my people, I would 
again call your attention, that fe may hear and understand 
the remainder of my words which I shall speak unto you; 
for behold, if the knowledge of the goodness of God at 
this time, has awakened you to a sense of your nothing- 
ness, and your worthlessness and falien state; I say unto 
you, if ye have come toa knowledge of the goodness of 
God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom, and his pa- 
tience, and his long suffering towards the children of men, 
and also, the atonement which has been prepared from 
the foundation of the world, that thereby salvation might 
come to him that should put his trust in the Lord, and 
thould be diligent in keeping his commandments, and 
continue tn the faith even unto the end of his life; I mean 
the life of the mortal body; I say, that this is the man who 
receiveth salvation, through the atonement which was pre- 
pared from the foundation of the world, for all mankind, 
which ever were, ever since the fall of Adam, or who are 
or who ever shall be, even unto the end of the world; and 
this is the means whereby salvation cometh. And there 
is none other salvation, save this which hath been spoken 
of; neither are there any conditions whereby man can 
be saved, éxcept the conditions which I have told you.— 
Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all 


160 ROOK OF noaian. 


things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all 
wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; be- 
lieve that man doth not comprehend all the things which 
the Lord can comprehend. And again: Believe that ye 
must repept of your sins and forsake them, and humble 
ourselves before God; and ask in sincerity of heart that 
he would forgive you: and now, if you believe all these 
things, see that ye da them. And again I aay unto you 
as I have said before, that as ye have come to the know- 
ledge of the glory of God, or if ye have known of his 
goodness, and have tasted of his love, and have received 
a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceedi 
great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should 
remember, and always retain in remembrance, the great- 
ness of God, and your own nothingness, and his goodness 
and long suffering towards you unworthy creatures, and 
humble yourselves even in the.depths of humility, calling 
on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in 
the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by 
the mouth of the angel; and behold, I say unto you, that 
if ye do this, ye shall always rejoice, and bg filled with 
the love of God, and always retain a remission of your | 
sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the glory of 
him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which ia 
just and true. And ye will not have a mind to injuré one 
another, but to live pacans and to render to every man 
according to that which is his due. And ye will not suf- 
fer your children, that they go hungry, or naked; neither 
will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and 
fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who 
is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath 
been spoken of by our fathers; be being an enemy to all 
righteousness; but ye will teach them to walk in the ways 
of” truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one 
another, and to serve one another; and also, ye yourselves 
will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye 
will administer of your substance unto him that standeth 
in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth 
up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. 
Perhaps thou shalt say, the man has brought upon himself 
his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not 
give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my sub- 
stance, that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just. 
But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this, the same 
hath great cause to repent: and except he repententh of 
that which he hath done, he perisheth forever, and hath no 
interest in tho kingdom of God. For behold, are we not 


BOOK OF MOSIAH. 161 


all beggars? Do we not all depend upon the same being, 
even God, for all the substancè which we have; for bath 
food, and raiment, and for gold, and for silver, and for all 
the riches which we have of every kind? And behold, 
even at this time, ye have been calling on his name, and 
begging for a remission of your sins. And has he suffered 
that ye have begged in vain? Nay; he has poured out his 
ae upon you, aud has caused that your hearts should be 

Hed with joy, and has caused that your mouths should be 
stopped, that ye could not, find utterance, so exceedin 
great was your joy. And now, if God, who has create 
you, on whom you are dependant for your lives, and for al) 
that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye 
ask that is right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, 
O then, how had ye ought to impart of the substance that 
ye have, one to another? Andif ye judge the man who 
putteth up his petition to you for your substance, that he 
perish not,-and condemn him, how much more just will be 
your condemnation, for withholding your substance, which 
doth not belong to you, but to God, to whom also, your life . 
belongeth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of the 
thing which thou hast done. [ say unto you, wo be unto 
that man, for his substance shall perish with him; and no@, 
I say these things unto those who are rich, as pertaining to 
the things of this world. And again, I say unto the poor, 

e who have not and yct have sufficient, that ye remain 
rom day te day; I mean all you who deny the beggar, be- 
cause ye have not; I would that ye say in your hearts, that 
I give not because I have not; but if I had, I would give. 
And now, if ye say this in your hearts, ye remain guiltless, 
otherwise ye are condemned, and your condemnation is 
just; for ye covet that which ye have not received. 

And now, for the sake of these things which I have spo- 
ken unto you; that is, for the sake of retaining a remission 
of your sins from day to day, that yc may walk guiltless 
before God, I would that ye should impart of your sub- 
stance to the poer, every man according to that which he 
hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, vis- 
iting the sick, and administering to their relief, both spir- 
itually and — according to their wants, and Bee 
ihat all these things are done in wisdom and order: for it 
is Not requisite ‘that a man should run faster than he has 
trenoth. And again: It is expedient that Ke should be 
diligent, that thereby he might win the — therefore, 
ul things must be done in order. And I would that ye 
thould remember, that — among you that borrow- 

a 1 


162 BOOK OF MOSIAH. 


eth of hig neighbor, should return the thing that he bortow- 
eth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt commit 
sin, and perkaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit 
sin also. And ‘finally, I cannot tell you all the things 
whereby ye may commit sin: for there are divers ways and 
means, even so many, that I cannot number them. But 
this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch your- 
selves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, 
and observe the commandments of God, and continue in 
' the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of 

our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. _ 
And now, O man, remember, and perish not. 


— 
CHAPTER III. 


AND now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had 
thus spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to 
know of his people, if they believed the words which he 
had spoken untothem. And they all cried with one voice, 
saying, Yea, we believe all’the words which thou hast spo- 
ken unto us; and also, we know of their surety and truth, 
because of the Spirit of the Lord Omnipotent, which has 
wrought a mighty change in us, or in our hearts, that we 
have no more disposition to do evil, but to do good con- 
tinually: And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite 
goodness of God, and the manifestations of his Spirit, have 
gren! views of that which is to come; and were it expe- 

ient, we could prophesy of all things. And itis the faith 
which we have had on the things which our king has spa- 
ken unto us, that has brought us to this great knowledge, 
whereby we do rejoice with such exceeding great joy; and 
we are willing to enter into a covenant with our God, to. 
do his will, and to be obedient to his commandments in 
all things that he shall command us, all the remainder of 
our days, that we may not bring upon ourgelves a never 
ending torment, as has Leen spoken by the angel, that we 
may not drink out of the cup of the wrath of God. 
nd now, these are the words which king Benjamin de- 
sired of them; and therefore he said: unto — Ve have 
spoken the words that I desired; and the covenant which 
ye have made, is a righteous covenant. And now, because 
of the covenant which ye have made, ye shall be called the 
children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters: for behold, 
this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say that 


BOOK OF MOSIAH. 163 


hearta are changed through faith on his name; therer 
isre, e are born of him, and have become his sons and his 
epee Dies And under this head, ye are made free; and 
there ig noother head whereby ye can be made free. There 
is no other name given, whereby salvation cometh; there» 
” fore, I would that ye should take upon you the name of 
Christ, all you that have entered into the covenant with 
God, that ye should be obedient unto the end of your lives, 
And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this, shall 
be found at the right hand of God, for he shall know the 
name by which he is called; for he shall be called by the 
name of Christ. 

And now, it shall come to pass that whosoever shall not 
take upon them the name of Christ, must be called by some 
other name; therefore, he findeth himself on the lefthand 
of God. And I would that ye should remember also, that 
this is the name that I said I should give unto you, 
that never should be blotted out, except it be through ans- . 
gression: therefore, take heed that ye do not transgress, 
that the name be not blotted out of your hearts. I say unta 
you, I would that ye should remember to retain the namg 
Written always in your hearts, that ye are not found on the 
left hand of God, but that ye hear and know the voice by 
which ye shall be called, and also, the name by which he 
shall call you: for, how knoweth a man the master whom 
he has not served, and who is a stranger unto him, and is 
far from the thoughts and intents of hisheart? And 5 
Doth a man take an ass which belongeth to his neighbor, 
and keep him? 1 say unto you, nay; he will not even suf- 
fer that he shal! feed among his flocks, but will drive him 
away, and cast him out. I say unto you, that even so shall 
it be among you, if ye know not the name by which ye are 
called. Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and 
immovable, always@bounding in good works, that Christ, 
the Lord God Omnipotent, may seal you his, that you may 
be brought to heaven, that ye may have everlasting salva- 
tion ee eternal life, through the wisdom, and power, and 
justice, and mercy of him, who created all things, in heave 
en and in earth, who is God above all. Amen. 


D pC 


CHAPTER IV 


Anp now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, af» 
ter haying finished speaking to the people, that he should 





164 BOOK OF MOSLAIL. 


take the riames of all those who had entered into a cdver 
nant with God, to keep his commandments. And it came 
to pass that there was not one soul, except it were little 
children, but what had éntered into the covenant, and had. 
taken upon them the name of Christ. And again: It came 
to pass that when king Benjamin had made an end of all 
these things, and had consecrated his son Mosiah, to bea 
ruler and a king over his people, and had given him all the 
charges concerning the kingdom, and also had appointed: 
“fkiests to teach the people, that thereby they might hear 
and know the commandments of God, and to stir them up 
in remembrance of the oath which they had made, he dis 
missed the multitude, and they returned, every one accor- 
ding to their families, to their own houses. ` 

* Mosiah began to reign in his father’s stead. And 
he 8egan to reign in the thirtieth year of his age, makingin 
the whole, about four hundred and seventy-six years from 
the ffme that Lehi left Jerusalem. And king Benjamin 
lived three years and he died. . And it came to pass that 
king Mosiah did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did ob- 
serve his judgments, and his statutes, and did keep his com- 
mandments ın all things whatsoever he commanded him. 

Apd king Mosiah did cause his people that they. should 
til] the earth. And he also, himself did till the earth, that 
thereby he might not become burthensome to his people, 
that he might do according to that which his father had 
done, in all things. And there was no contention among 
all his people, for the space of three years. 


——_to 


CHAPTER V. : 


AND now, it came to pase thet after king Mosiah had 
had continual peace, for the space of three years, he was 
desirous to know concerning the people who went up to 
dwell in the land of Lehi-Nephi, or in the city of Lehi- 
Nephi: for his people had heard nothing from them, from 
the time they left the land of Zarahemla; therefore, they 
wearied him with their teasings. 

And it came to pass that king Mosiah ted that six- 
teen of their strong men might go up to the land of Lehi- 
Nephi, to inquire concerning their brethren. Anditcame 
to pass that on the morrow, they started to go up, having 
with them one Ammon, he being a stron Rae mighty man, 
and a descendant of Zarahem a; and he was alse their 


HOOK OF MosiAR. 106 


leader. And now, they knew not the course they should 
travel in the wilderness, to go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi; 
therefore, they wandered many days ip the wilderness, 
even forty days did they wander. And when they had 
wandered. forty days, they came to a hill, whieh is north 
of the land of Shilom, and there they pitched their tents. 
And Ammon took threeof his brethren, and their names 
were Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, and they went down inte 
the land of Nephi; and behold, they met the king of the 
peo le, who was in the land of Nephi, and in the land of 

hijom ; and they were surrounded by the king’s guard, and 
were taken, and were bound, and were committed to pris- 
on. And it came to pass when they had been in prison 
two days, they were again brought before the king, and 
their bands were loosed; and they stood before the king, 
and were permitted, or rather commanded that they should 
answer the questions which he should ask them. And he 
asid unto them, behold I am Limhi, the son of Noah, who 
was the son of Zeniff, who came up out of the land of Zara- 
hemla to inherit this land, which was the land of their fath- 
ers, who. was made a king by the voice of the people. And 
now, I desire to know the cause whereby ye were so bold 
as to come near the walla of the city, when I, myself, was 
with my guarda, without the gate? And now, for this 
cause have I suffered that ye should be preserved, that I 
might inquire of you, or else I should have caused that my 
guards ne have put you to death. Ye are permitted 
to speak. ; '. ; 

And now, when Ammon saw that he was permitted td 
speak, he went.forth and bowed himself before the kings 
and rising again he said, O King, I am very thankful bee 
fore God this day, that I am yet alive, and am permitted to 
— and I will endeayor to speak with boldness: for 

am assured that if ye had known me, ye would not have 
suffered that I should have wore these bands. For I am 
Ammon, and am a descendant of Zarahemla, and have 
come up out of the land of Zarahemla, to inquire concerne 
ing our brethren, whom Zeniff brought up out of that land, 

And now, it came to pass that after Limhi had heard the. 
words of Ammon, he was exceeding glad, and said, now, | 
know of a surety that my brethren who were in the land of 
Zarahemla, are yet alive. And now, I will rejeice; and on 
the morrow, | will cause that my people shall rejoice alse, 
For beheld, we are in bondage tothe Lamanites, apd aze 
taxed with a tax which ie grievous to be borne. And now, 
behold, our brethren will deliver us out of our bondage, or 
ant of the hands of the Lamanites, and we will be tbeir 


‘166 Book OF MOSIAH. 


‘slaves: for it is better that we be slaves to the Nephites 


than to pay tribute to the king of the Lamanites. 
And now, king Limhi commanded his guards that they 
should no more bind Ammon, nor his brethren, but caused 


‘that they should go to the hill which was north of Shilom, 


and bring their brethren into the city, that thereby they 
might eat, and drink, and rest themselves from the: labors 


_ of their journey; for they had suffered many things: they 


had suffered hunger, thirst, and fatigue. 

And now, it came to passon the morrow, that king Limhi 
sent a proclamation amang all his people, that thereby they 
might gather themselves together to the temple, to hear 
the words which he should speak unto them. ` And it came 
to pass that when va had gathered themselves together, 
that he spake unto them in this wise, saying, O ye, m 
people, lift up your heads and be comforted: for behol 
the time is at hand, or is not for distant, when we shall no 
longer be in subjection to our enemies, notwithstanding 
our many strugglinga, which have been in vain; yet I trust 
their remaineth an effectual struggle to be made. There- 
fore, lift up your heads, ‘and rejoice, and put your trust in 


` God, in that God who was the God of Abraham, and Isaac, 


and Jacob; and also, that God who brought the children 
of Israel out of the land of Egypt, and caused that the’ 

should walk through the Red Soa on dry ground, and fe 

them with manna, thet they might not perish in the wil- 
derness; and many more things did he do for them. And 
again: That same God. has brought our fathers-out of the 
land of Jerusalem, and has kept and preserved his people, 
even until now. And behold, it is because of our iniqui- 
ties and abominations, that has brought us into bondage. 
And ye all are witnesses this day, that Zeniff, who was 
made king over this people, he being over-zealous to inher- 
it the land of his fathers, therefore being deceived by the 
cunning and craftiness of king Laman, who having entered 
into a treaty with king Zeniff, and having yielded ap into 
his hands the possessions of a part of the land, or even the 
city of Lehi-Nephi, and the city of Shilom; and the land 
round about; and all this he did, for the sole purpose of 
bringing this people into subjection, or into bondage. And 
behold, we at this time do pay. tribute to the king of the 
Lamanites, to the amount of one half of our corn, and our 
barley, and even all our grain of every kind, and one half of 
the increase of our flocks, and our herds; and even one 
half of all we have or possess, the king of the Lamanites 
doth exact of us, or our lives. And now, is not this griev- 
ous to be borne? And is not this, our affliction great? 


ge eT ee ay & wut O Cot ge FS, 


ROOK OF MOSIAH. 167 


Now behold, how great reason have we to mourn, Yea, I 
say unto you, great are the reasons which we have to mourn: 
for behold, how many of our brethren have been slain, and 
their blood has been spilt in vain, and all because of ini- 
quity. For if this people had not fallen into transgression 
the Lord would not have suffered that this great evil should 
come uponthem. But behold, they would not hearken 
unto his words; but thore arose contentions among them, 
even so much that they did shed blood among themselves. 
And a prophet of the Lord have they slain; yea, a chosen 
man of God, who told them of their wickedness and abom- 
inations, and prophesied of many. things which are to 
eome, yea, even. the coming of Christ. And because he 
said unto them, that Christ was the God, the Father of . 
all things, and said that he should take upon him the im- 
age of man, and it should be the image after which man 
was created in the beginning; or in other words, he said 
that man was created after the image of God, and‘ that God 
should come down among the children of men, and take 
upon him flesh and blood, and go forth upon the face of the 
earth; and now because he said this, they did put him to 
death; and many more things did they do, which brought 
down the wrath of God uponthem. Therefore, who won- 
dereth that they are in bondage, and that they are smitten 
with sore afflictions? For behold, the Lord has said, I will 
not succor my people in the day of their transgression; but I 
will hedge up their ways, that they prosper not: and their 
doings shall be asa stumbling block before them. And 
again, he saith, if my people shall sow filthiness, they shall 
teap the chaff thereof, in the whirlwind; and the effect there- 
of,is poison. And again, he saith, if my people shall sow fil- 
thiness, they shall reap the east wind, which bringeth im- 
mediate destruction. . And now, behold, the promise of the 
Lord is fulfilled; and ye are smitten, and afflicted. But if 
ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, and put 

our trust in him, and serve him with all diligence of mind; 
if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and pleas- 
ure, deliver you out of bondage. 

And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an 
end of speaking to his people, for he spake many things 
unto them, and only a few of them have I written in this 
book, he told his people all the things concerning their 
brethren who were in the land of Zarahemla; and he 
caused that Ammon should stand up before the multi- 
tude, and rehearse unto them all that had happened unto 
their brethren, from the time that Zeniff went up out of 
the land, even until the time that he himself came up out 


rég sòci oF mOst4m, 


of the land. And he also rehearsed unto them the last 
words which king Benjamin had taught them, and explain- 
ed them to the people of king Limhi, so that they might . 
understand all the words which he spake. And it came to 
pess that after he had done all this, that king Limhi dismies- 
éd the multitude, and caused that they should return, every 
one unto his own house. | 

And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which 
eontained the record of his people, from the time that they 
left the land of Zarahemla, should be brought before Am- 
mon, that he might read them. Now, as soon as Ammon. 
had read the record, the king inquired of him to know if 
he could interpret languages. And Ammon told him that 
- he could not. And the king said unto him, being grieved 
for the afflictions of my people, I caused thet forty and three 
of my people should take a journey into the wilderness, 
that thereby they might find the land of Zarahemlah; that 
we might appeal unto our brethren to deliver ug outof bon- 
dage; and they were lost.in the wilderness, for the space 
of many days, yet they were diligent, and found not the 
land of Zarahemla, but returned to this land, having trav- 
eled in a land among many waters; having discovered a 
tand which was covered with bones of men, and of beasts, 
&c., and was also covered with ruins of buildings of eve 
kind: having discovered a land which had been people 
with a people who were as numerous as the hosts of Israel. 
And for a testimony that the things that they have said are 
true, they have brought twenty-four plates, which are fillled 
with engravings; and they are of pure gold. And behold, 
also, they have brought breast-plates, which are large; and 
they are of brass, aud of sappan: and are perfectly sound. 
And again, they have brought swords, the hilts thereof 
have perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with 
rust; and there is no one in the land that is able to inter- 
pret the a or the engravings that are on the plates. 

herefore, I said unto thee. canst thou translate? And J 
say unto thee again, knowest thou of any one that can 
translate? for I am desirous that these records should be 
translated into our language. For, perhaps they will give 
us a knowledge of a remnant of the people who have been 
destroyed, from whence these records came; or, perhaps 
they will give usa knowledge of this very people Shs have 
been destroyed; and I am desirous to know the cause of 
their destruction. 

Now Ammon said unto him, I can assuredly tell thee, 
O king, of a man that can translate the records: for he hag 
wherewith that he can look, and translate all records that 


.. DOOK OF woslak. 19 


sre of ancient date: and it is a gift from God. And the 
things are called interpreters; and no man can look in them, 
except he be commazided, lest he should look for that 
he ought not, and he should perish. And whosoever is 
commended to look in them, the same is called seer. And 
behold, the king of the people who is in the land of Zara- 
hemja, is the man that is commanded to do these things, 
and who has this high gift from God. And the king said, 
thet a seer is greater than a propia. And Ammon said, 
that a seor is a revelator, and a prophet also; and a gift 
whieh ie greater, can no man have, except he should pos- 
sess the power of God, which no man can; yet a man may 
have great power given him from God. But a seer can 
ksow of thangs which have past, and also of things which 
are to come; and by them shal} all things be revealed, or 
tather, shall. secret things be made manifest, and hidden 
things shall come to light, and things which are not known, 
shali be made known by them; and also, things shall be 
made known by them, which otherwise could not be known. 
Thus God has provided a means that man, through faith, 
might work mighty miracles; therefore, he becometh a 
great benefit to his fellow beings. 

And now, when Ammon had made an end of speaking 
these words, the king — exceedingly,and gave thanks 
to God, saying, doubtless, a great mystery is contained 
within these plates; and these interpreters were doubtless 
prepared for the purpose of unfolding all such mysteries to 
the children of men. O how marvelous are the works of 
the Lord, and how long doth he suffer with his people; 
yea, and how blind and impenetrable are the understand- 
ings of the children of men: for they will not seek wisdom, 
neither do they desire that she should ruleover them. Yea, 
they are as a wild flock, which fleeth from the shepherd, 
and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the 
beasts of the forest. - 


15 


- #90 - NOOK OF MUSLEH. 
CHAPTER VI. 
THE RECORD OF ZENIFF. 


An account of his people, from the time they left the land of 
‘Zarahemla, unti the time that they were delivered out of 
the hands of the Lamansies. 


I, Zenirr, having been taught in all the language of the 
Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the land of Ne- 
i, or of the land of our fathers’ first inheritance, and hav- 
ing been sent as a spy among the Lamanites, that I might 
spy out their forces, that our army might come upon them 
and destroy them; but when I saw that which was good 
among them, I was desirous that they should not be de- 
stroyed; therefore, I contended with my brethren’ in the 
wilderness: for I would that our ruler should make a treaty 
with them. But he being an austere and a bleod-thirsty 
` man, commanded that I should be slain; but I was rescued 
. by the shedding of much blood: for father fought against 
- father, and brother against brother, until the greatest num- 
ber of our army was destroyed in the wilderness; and we 
returned, those of us that were spared, to the land of Za- 
rahemla, to relate that tale to their wives, and their chil- 
dren. And yet, I being over zealous to inherit the land of 
our fathers, collected as many ag were desirous to go up to 
possess the land, and started again on our journey into the 
wilderness, to go up to the land; but we were smitten with 
famine and sore afflictions; for we were slow to remember 
the Lord our God.’ Nevertheless, after many days’ wander- 
ing in the wilderness, we pitched our tents in the place 
where our brethren were slain, which was near to the land 
of our fathers. 
And it came to pass that I went again with four of my 
men, into the city, in unto the king, that I might-know of 
the disposition of the king; and that I might know if I 
might goin with my people, and posseas the land in peace. 
And I went in unto iha king, and he covenanted with me, 
that I might possess the land of Lehi-Nephi, and the land 
of Shilom. And he also commanded that his people should 
depart out of the land, and I and my people went into the 
land, that we might possess it. And we began to build 
S and to repair the walls of the city, yea, even the 
walls of the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the city of Shilom. 
And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all man- 
ner of seeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and of bar- 
ley, and with neas, and with sheum, and with seeds of all 


NOK-O8 MOSM. 272 


menner of fruits; and-we did begin to multiply ‘and pros- 
per in the land. Now, it was the cunning and the crafti- 
ness of king Laman, to bring my people into bondage, that 
he yielded up the land, that we might possess it. 

herefore, it came to pass that after we had dwelt in the 
land for the space of twelve years, that king Laman began 
to grow uneasy, lest by any means my people should wax 
strong in the land, and that they could not overpower them 
and bring them into bondage. Now, they were a lazy, and 
an idolatrous people; there rhs vane adie desirous to bring 
us into bondage, that they might glut themselves with thé 
labors of our hands; yea, that they might feast themselves 
upon the flocks of our fields. $ ' 

Therefore, it came to pass that king Laman began to stir 
up his people, that they should contend with my people; 
therefoxe, there began to be wats and contentions in the 
land. For, in the thirteenth year of my reign in the land 
of Nephi, away on the-south of the land of Shilom, when 
my people were watering and feeding their flocks, and till- 
ing their lands, a numerous host of Lamanites came upon 
them, and began to slay them, and to take off their flocks, 
and the corn of their fields. Yea, and it came to pass that 
they fled, ali that were not overtaken, even into the city of 
Nepbi, and did call upon me for protection. 

And it came to pags that I did arm them with bows, and with 
arrows, with ewords,.and with cimeters, and with clubs, and 
with slings, and with al] manner of — which we could 
invent, and I and-my people did go forth against the La- 
manites, to battle; yea, in the strength of the Lord did we 
go forth to battle against the Lemanites; for I and my peo 
ple did ery mightily to the Lord, that he would deliver ua 
out of the hands of our enemies, for we were awakened to 
a remembrance of the deliverance of our fathers. And God 
did hear our cries, and did apawer our.prayers; and we did. 

o forth in his might. Yea, we did go forth against the 

manites; and ir one day and a night, we did slay three 
thousand and forty three; we did slay them, even until we 
had driven them. out of our land. And I, mysclf, with 
mine own handg, did help to bury their dead. And behold, 
te eur great sorrow and lamentation, two hundred and sev- 
enty nine of our brethren were slain. 

And it came to pass that we again began to establish the 
kingdom; and we again began to possess the land in peace, 
And I caused that there should be weapons of war mada, - 
& every hind, that thereby I might have weapons for. my 
people, against the time the Lamanites should come. u 


X BOOK OF MOSHE. 


about the land, that the Lamanites might net come upos us 
again unawares, and destroy us; and thus I did guard my 

ople, and my flocks, and keep them from falling into the 
kande of our enemies. 

And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our 
fathers, for many rean: yea, for the space of twenty and 
two years. And I did cause that the men should till the 

ound, and raise all manner of grain, and all manner of 

it, of every kind. And I did cause that the womer 
should spin, ‘and toil, and work; and work all manner of 
fine linen; yea, and ‘cloth of every kind, that we might 
clothe our nakedness; and thus we did prosper in the land; 
thus we did have continual peace in the land, for the space 
of twenty and two years. 

And it came to pass that king Laman died, and his son 
began to reign in his stead. And he began to stir his peo- 
ple up in rebellion against my people; therefore, they be- 
gan to prepare for war, and to come up to battle against my 
people. But I had sent my spies out round abont the land 
of Shemlon, that I might discover their preparations, that 
' I might guard against them, that they might not.come up- 
on my people and destroy them. 

And it.came to pass that they came up upon the north of 
the land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men armed 
with bows, and with arrows, and with swords, and with 
cimeters, and with stones, and with slitigs; and they had 
their heads shaved, that they were naked; and they were 
girded with a leathern girdle about their loins. 

And it came to pass that I caused that the women and 
children of my people should be hid in the wilderness; 
and i also caused that all my old men that could bear arms, 
and also all my young men that were able to bear arms, 
should gather themselves together, to go to battle against 
the Lamanites; and I did place them in their ranks, every 
man according to hie age. 

And it came to paes that we did go up to battle against 
the Lamanites. And I, even-I, in my old age, did go up 

to battle against the Lamanites. And it came to pase that 
ve did go spon the strength of the Lord, to battle. 

Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, 
nor the strength of the Lord; therefore, they depended up- 
on their own strength. Yet they were a strong people, as 
to the stfength of men; they were a wild, and ferocious, 

‘and a blood-thirsty people, believing in the tradition of 
their fathers, which is this: Believing that they were driven 
out of the land:of Jerusalem, because of the iniquities of 
their fathers, and that they were wronged in the wilder- 





ness by their brethren; and they were also wronged, while 
crossing the sea. .Andagain: That they were wronged 
while in the land of their first inheritance, after they had 
crossed the sea; and all this, because that Nephi was more 
faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; there- 
fore he was favored of the Lord, for the Lord heard his 
popon and answered them, and he took the lead of their 
journey in the wilderness. And his brethren were wrotk 
with him, because they understood not the dealings of the 
Lord; they were also wroth with him upon the waters, be- 
cause they hardened their hearts against the Lord. And 
again: They were wroth with him when they had arrived 
ta the promised land, becanse they said that he had taken 
the ruling of the people out of their hands; and they sought 
to kill him. Andagain: They were wroth with him, be- 
eause he departed into the wilderness as the Lord had com- 
manded him, and took the records which were engraven 
on thé plates of brass; for they said that he robbed them. 
And thus they have taught their children, that they should 
hate them, and that they should murder them, and that they 
should rob and ptunder them, and do all they could to de- 
stroy them; therefore, 2 have an eternal hatred towards 
the children of Nephi. For this very cause has king La- 
man, by his cunning and lying craftiness, and his fair 
ptomises, deceived me, that I have brought this, my people, 
up into this land, that they may destroy them; yea, and 
we have suffered this many years in the land. 

And now I, Zertiff, after having told all these things unto 
my people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them 
to go to battle with their might, putting their trust in the 
Lord; therefore, we did contend with them, face to face. 
And it came to paes that we did drive them again out of 
our land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even 
ao many that we did not number them. — 

And it came to pass that we returned again to-our owm 
land, and my ab a ag began to tend their flocks, and 
to till their ground. And now, I being old, did confer the 
kingdom upon one of my sons; therefore, I say no more. 
And may the Lord bless my poopie: Amen. 


174 BOOK oF Montan. 
CHAPTER VII. 


Ann now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the king- 
dom upon Noah, one of his sons: therefore Noah began 
to reign in his stead; and he did not walk in the ways of 
his father. For behold, he did not keep the command- 
ments of God, but he did walk after the desires of his own 
heart. And he had many wives and concubines. And 
did cause his people to commit sin, and do that which was 
abominable in the sight of the Lord. Yea, and they did 
commit whoredoma, and all manner of wickedness. And - 
he laid a tax of one fifth part of all they possessed; a fifth 
part of their gold and of their silver, and a fifth part 
of their ziff, and of their copper, and of their brass and 
their iron: and a fifth part of their fatlings; and also,e fifth 
part of all their pain And all this did he take, to sup- 

ort himself, and his wives, and his concubines, and also, 

is priests, and their wives, and their concubines: thus 
he had changed the affairs of the kingdom. Forhe put 
down all the priests that had been consecrated by his fath- 
er, and consecrated new ones in their stead, such as were 
lifted up in the pride of their hearts. Yea, and thus they 
were supported in their laziness, and in their idolitary, 
and in their whoredoms, by the taxes which king Noah 
had put upon his people; thus did the pepe labor exceed- 
ingly, to support iniquity. Yea, and they also became 
idolatrous, because they were deceived by the vain and 
flattering words of the king and priests: for they did speak 
flattering things unto them. 

And it came to pass that king Nosh built many elegant 
and spacious buildings; and he ornamented them with 
fine work of wood, and of all manner af — things, 
of gold, ahd of silver, and of iron, and of brases, and of 21ff, 
and of copper; and he also built him a spacious palace, 
and a throne in the midst thereof, all of which was of fine 
wood, and was ornamented with geld, and silver, and with 
precious things. And he also caused that his workmen 
should work all manner of fine work within the walls of the 
temple, of fine wood, and of copper, and of brass; and the 
seats which were set apart for the high priests, which were 
above all the other seats, he did ornament with pure gold; 
and he caused a breastwork to be built before them, that 
they might rest their bodies and their arms upon, while 
they should speak lying and vain words to his people. 

Andit came to pass that he built a tower near the tem- 
ple; yea, a very high tower, ever so high that he could 
stand upon the top thereof and overlook the land of Ski- 


BOCK OP MOSTAR.’ 176 


lom, and alsotho land-of Shemion, which was possesseo | 
by the Lamanites; and ho could’ even look over all the 
Jand round about. l ae. 

. And it came ta that he caused many buildings to be 
built.in the land Shilom: and he caused a great tower to 
be built on the hill north of the land Shilom, which had 
been a resort for the children of Nephi, at the time they 
fied out of the land; and thus he did do with the riches 
which he obtained by the taxation of his people. 

And it came to pass that he placed his heart upon his 
riches, and he spent his time in riotous living with his 
‘wives and his concubines: and so did also his priests spend . 
their time with harlots. And it came to pass that he plait: 
od vineyards round about in the land: and he built wine 

and made wine in abundance; and therefore he 
ame a wine bibber, and also his people. 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites began to come 
im upon his people, upon small numbers, and to slay them 
in their fields, and while they were tending their flocks. 
And king Noah sent guerds round about the land to keep 
them off; but he did’ not send a sufficient number, and the 
Lamsnites came upon them and killed them, and drove 
many of their flocks out of the land: thus the Lamanites be- 

to destroy them, and to exercise their hatred upon them. 

And it came to pass that king Noah sent his armies 


against them, and they were driven back, or they drove . 


them back for a time; therefore, they returned rejoicing 
in their spoil. And now, because of this great victory, 


they were lifted up in the pride of their hearts; they did. 


boast in their own strength, eaying, that their fifty could 
stand against thousands of the Lamanites; and thus they 
did boast, and did delight in blood, and the shedding of 
‘the blood of their brethren, and this because of the wick- 
edness of. their king and priests. ; 

And it came to pass that there wae a man among them, 
whoes name was Abinadi: and he went forth among them, 
and began to prophesy, saying, behold, thus saith the Lord, 
and thus hath he commanded me, saying, Go forth and 
say unto. this people, thus saith the Lord: wo be unto this 
people, for I have seen their abominations, and their wick- 
edness, and their whoredpms: and except they repent, I 
will visitthem in mineanger. And except they repent, 
and turn to the Lord their God, behold, I will deliver them 
into the hands of their enemies; Pb, and they shall be: 
brought into bondage; and they shall be afflicted by the’ 
hand of their enemies. ‘And it shall come to pass that 
they shall ‘know that I. am the Lord their God, and am a; 


e 
=P. 


Pag 


Wu. BE OR NOSIM: 


jenlens God, visiting the iniquitiescf ney peciplé.c' Arnel 
A ahall come to sain thit pa ia this people repent, and 
turn unto the Lord their God, they shall be brought into 
bondage; and none shall deliver them, except it be the 
Lord, the Almighty God. Yea, and.it shall come to pass that 
when they shall cry unto me, | will be slow to hear their 
cries; yea, anid I will suffer them that they be smitten by 
their enemies. And except they répent in sackcloth and: 
ashes, and ery mightily tọ the Lord their God, I wit nos 
hear their prayers, neither will I deliver them out bfa their 
afflictions; and thussaith the Lord, and thus hath he com 
mianded me. . p : 

- Now it came to pass that when Abinadi had spoken 
these words unto them, they were wroth with him, and 
seught to take away his life; but the Lord deliyered him: 
out of their hands. Now when king Noah had heard of. 
the words which Abinedi had spoken unto the people, he 
wee also wroth; and he said,;.who is Abinadi, that I and 
my people should be judged of him? or who is the Lord, 
that shall bring upon my people such great affliction: -I 
command you to bring Abinadi hither, that I may slay. 
him: forhe has said these things, that he might stir up 
my people to anger, one with another, and to raise com 
tentions among my people; therefore I will slay him. Now 
the eyes of the people were blinded; therefore, they har- 
dened their hearts against the words of Abinadi, and they 
sought from that time forwerd to take him. And king 
Noah hardened his heart against the word of the Lord; 
ahd he did not repent of -his evil doings.. - 

And it ¢ame to pass that after the space of two years, 
thet Abinadi came among them in disguise, that they 
krew him not, and began to prophesy among them, saying, 
tkus hath the Lord commanded me, saying: Abinadi, go 
and prophesy unto this my people, for they have hardened: 
their hearts against my words; they have repented not of 
their evil domgs; therefore, I will visit them in my anger, 
yea, in my fierce anger will I visit them in their iniguities 
and abominations; yea, wo be unto this generation. And. 
the Lord seid unto me, stretch forth thy hand, and pro»: 
phesy, saying, thas saith the Lord: It shall come to pass. 

at this generation, because of their iniquities, shati be 
brought inte bondage, and shall be smitten en the cheeky 
yea, and shall be driven by mon, and shall be-slain; ant: 
thé vultures: of the sir, and the dogs, you, end the wild: 
beasts, shull devour their fleeh. : 

And it ahall come to pass that the life of king Noah hath 

valued aven garinent iu ahot fangs; Ds hashak 





ROOK OF MOSIAM. 177 


know that Jam the Lord. And it shell come to pase that I 
will smite this my people with sore afflictions; yea, with 
famine and with pestilence; and I will cause that they shall 
howl all the Ty mig Yea, and I will cause that they shall 
heve burdens . lashed upon their backs; and they shall be 
driven before, like a dumb ass. 

Andit shall come topass that I will send forth hail among 
them, and it shall smite them; and they shall also be smit- 
ten with the east wind; and insects shall pester their land 
also, and devour their grain. And they shall be smitten 
with a great pestilence;. and all this will I do, because of 
their iniquities and abominations. 

-Anġ it shall come to pass that except they repent, I will 
utterly destroy them from off the face of the earth; yet 
shall leave a record behind them, and I will preserve 
them for other nations which shall possess the land; yea, 
even this will I do, that I may discover the abominations 
of this people to other nations. And many things did 
Abinadi prophesy against this people. 
- And it came to pass that they were angry with him; 
and they took him and carried him bound before the king, 
and said unto the king, behold, we have brought a man 
before thee who has prophesied evil concerning thy people, 
and saith that God will destroy them; and he also prophe- 
sieth evil concerning thy life, and saith that thy life shall 
be as a garment in a furnace of fire. And again, he saith 
that thou shalt be as a stalk, even as a dry stalk of the 
field, which is ran over by the beasts and trodden under 
foot. And again, he saith thou shalt be as the blossoms 
of a thistle, which when it is fully ripe, if the wind blow- 
eth, it is driven forth. upon the face of the land; and he 
pretendeth the Lord hath spoken it. And he saith all this 
shall come upon thee, exeept thou repent; and this be- 
cause of thine iniquities. 

And now, O king, what great evil hast thou done, or 
what great sins have thy people committed, that we should 
be condemned of God or judged of this man? And now, 
Q king, behold, we are guiltless, and thou, O king, hast 
not sinned; therefore, this man hath lied concerning you, 
and he has prophesied in vain. And behold, we are strong, 
we shall not come into bondage, or be taken captive b 
our enemies; yen, and thou hast prospered in the land, 
and thou shalt also prosper. Behold, here is tho man, we 
deliver him into thy hands; thou mayest do with him as 
seemeth thee good. _ 

And it came to pass that king Noah caused that Abin- 
adi should be cast inte prison; and he commanded that 


178: BOOM OF ROSH. 


the priesta should: gather thémselves together, that tre 
might hold a council with them what he should do withhim. 
And it came to pass that they said unto the king, bring 
him hither, that we may question him. And the king com- 
mandéd that he should be broughtbeforethem. And they 
began to question him, that they mightcross him, that there- 
by they might have wherewith to accuse him; but he an- 
swered them boldly, and wishstood.all their qaestions, yea, 
totheirastonishment: forhe did withstand them in all their . 
questions, and did confound them in all their words. 
‘And it came to pass that one of them said unto him, 
what meaneth the words which are written, and which have - 
been taught by our fathers, saying: how beautiful u 
the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good ti- ° 
dings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings - 
of good; that publisheth salvation; that saith unte Zion, * 
thy God reigneth; thy watchmen shall lift up the voiee's 
with the voice together shell they sing, for they shall see 
eye to eye, when the Lord shail bring again Zion. Bréak - 
forth into joy; sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem =" 
for the Lord hath comforted his people: he hath redeemed ` 
Jerusalem. The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the 
eyes of all nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see - 
the salvation of ourGod. And now Abinadi said unto them, 
are you priests, and pretend to teach this people, and to un- 
derstand the spirit of prep ene and yet desire to know 
of me what these things mean? I say unto you, wo be wm- 
to you ‘for perverting the ways of the Lord. For if ye un- 
derstand these things, ye have not taught them; therefore, 
ye have perverted the ways of the Lord. Ye have net - 
applied your hearts to understanding; therefore, ye have ° 
not been wise. Therefore, what teach ye this people ?— 
And they said, we teach the law of Moses. And again, 
he said unto them, if ye teach the law of Moses, why do - 
ye not keep it? Why do ye set your hearts upon riches? 
hy do ye commit whoredoms, ‘and spend your strength” 
with hariots, yea, and cause this people to commit sin, that 
the Lord has cause to send me to prophesy ageinst this peo- 
ple, yea, even a great evil against this people? Know ye’ 
not that I speak the truth? Yee, ye know that I speak ~ 
the truth; and you onght to tremble before God. > -> 
And it shall come to pass that ye shail be smitten for 
your iniquities: for ye have said that ye teach the law of 
oses. And what know ye concerning the law of Moses? 
Doth salvation come by the law of Moses? What say yet 
‘nd they answered and said, that salvation did come b 
the law of Moses, But. now Ahinad? seid unto thors, $- 





So ee he EN ee ee I bn ey) Mat eg TS — ag tarts Fw * Fe. 


ROOK OF MONAH, ‘eo 


'kaow if ye keep the commandments of God, ye shall be 
saved; yea, if ye keep the commandments which the Lord 
‘delivered unto Moses,in the mount of Sinai, saying: I 
-am the Lord thy God, who has brought thee out of the 
land of Egypt, outof the house of bondage. Thou shalt 
- have no other God before me.., Thou shalt not make unto 
thee any graven image, orany likeness of any thing in heav- 
en above, or things which are inthe earth beneath. Now 
. Abinadi said unto them, have ye done allthis? I say un- 
to you, nay, ye have'not. And have ye taught this peo- 
ple that they should do all these things? I say unto you, 
may, ye have not. — 
And new when the king had heard these words, he said 
‘unto his priests, away tae this fellow, and slay him: for 
what have we to do with him, for he is mad. And they 
stood forth and attempted to lay their hands on him: but 
he withstood them, and said unto them, touch me not, for 
God aball smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I 
have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to 
deliver; neither have I told you that which ye requested 
that. I should tell: therefore, God will not suffer that I shall 
be destroyed at this time. But I must fulfil the command- 
“ments wherewith God has commanded me, and because I 
have told you the truth, ye are angry with mẹ. And agaia, 
because I have apokon the word of Gad, ye have judged 
me that I am mad. 
Now it came to pass after Abinadi had spoken these 
words, that the people of king Noah durst not lay their 
hands on him; for the Spirit of the Lord was upon him: 
and his face shone with exceeding lustre, .cven as Moses 
did while in the mount of Sinai, while speaking with the 
Lord. And he spake with power and authority from God; 
and he continued his words, saying, ye see that ye have 
not power to slay me, therefore] finish my message. Yea, 
and I perceive that’ it cuts you to your hearts, because I 
tek you the truth concerning your iniquities: yea, and my 
words fill yau with wonder and amazement, and with an- 
ger. But I finish my message; and then it matters not 
.whither I go, if it so bs that I am saved. But this much I 
tell you: what you do with me, after this, shall be.as a 
type and a shadow of things which are to eome. -And now 
Tread unto you tho remainder of the commandments of 
God, for I perceive that they are not written in your hearts; 
I perceive that ye have studied and taught iniquity the 
most part of your lives. 
: And now, ye remember that I said unto you, thou shalt 
mot make pato thee any. graven image, or any likeness of 


190 , BOOK OF“ NOBIAU. 


things which are in heaven sbove, or which arein theearth 
. beneath, or which are in tlie water under the earth. Aad 
again: thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, apr 
serve them: for Ithe Lordithy God am a jealous God, yis- 
iting the iniquitiesof the fathers upon the children, unto the 
thirdand fourth generations of them that hate me; and show- 
-İng mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep 
‘my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of tha 
-Lord thy God in vain: for the Lord will not hold him guilt- 
‘leas that taketh his name invain. Remember the sabbath 
day, to keep it holy.. Six days shalt thou labor, and de all 
thy work; but the seventh day, the sabbath of the Leed 
thy God, thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor 
thy daughter, thy man servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor 
thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: fer in 
six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea and 
all that in them is: wherefore the Lord blessed thesabbath 
day and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy mother, that 
thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God 
giveth thee. Thou shaltnot kill. Thou shalt not commit 
adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false 
witness against thy neighbor, Thou shalt not covet thy, 
neighbor’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, 
nor his man servant, nor his maid servant, nor his ox, nor 
his ass, ner any thing that is thy neighbors. 


—4 C 


CHAPTER vVII. 


AND it came to pass that after Abinadi had made an 
end of these sayings, that he said unto them, have ye taught 
this people that they should observe to do all these things? 
for to keep these commandments? ‘I say unto you, nay; 
for if ye had, the Lord would not have caused me to come 
forth and to prophesy evil concerning this people. And 
now ye have said that salvation cometh by the law of Moses, 
I say unto you that it is expedient that ye should keep the 
law of Moses as yet; but E say unto you, that the time shall 
come when it shall no more be expedient to keep the law 
of Moses. And moreover, I say unto you, that salvation 
doth not come by the law alone; and were it not for the 
atonement which God himself shall make for the sins and 
Iniquities of his people, that they must unavoidably perish, 
notwithstanding the law of Moses. And now I say unto 
you, that it was expedient that there should he a law given 





— — —⸗ 


The pooit OP MOSTAN. wi 


tu the cliff@ren of Ysrael, yoa, even a yery strict law: for 
they were a stiffnecked people: quick to do iniquity, and 
slow to remember. the Lord their God; therefore there was 
a law given them, yea, a law of performances and of ordi» 
nances, a law whith they were to observe strictly, from da 
to day, to kep them in remembrance of God, and their 
duty towards him. But behold, I say unto you, that all 
these things were types of things to come. And now, did 
they understand the law? I say unto you, nay, they did 
not all understand the law; and this because of the hard- 
ness of their hearts: for they understood not that there 
could not any man be saved, except it were through the 
redemption of God. For behold, did not Moses prophesy 
anto them conceming the coming of the Messiah, and that 
God should redeem his people, yea, and even all the pro- 
hets who have prophesied ever since the world began? 
ve they not spoken more or less concerning these things? 
Have they not said that God himself should come down 
among the children of men, and take upon him the form 
of man, end go forth in-mighty power upon the face of the 
earth? Yea, and have they not said also, that he should 
bring to pasa the resurrection of the dead, and that he, 
himself, should be oppressed and afflicted? Yea, qen 
doth not Isaiah say, who hath believed our réport, and to 
whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? for he shall grow 
up before him as a ‘tender plant, and as a root out of dry 
ground; he hath no form nor comelinss: and when we 
shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him, 
He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, 
tnd icquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our face 
from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. 
Surely he has borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows}, 
yet we did esteem him striken, smitten of God, and afflic- 
- Buthe was wounded for our transgressions, he was 
bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace 
waa upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. AH 
we, like sheep, have gone astray; we have turned every 
one to hisown way; and the Lord hath laid on him the in- 
iquities of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, 
yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to 
the slanghter? and as a sheep before her hearer is dumb, 
o he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison 
om judgment; and who shall declare his generation ? 
fr he was cut’ off out of the land of the living: for the 
tansgressions of my people was he atricken. And he 
' Iade his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his 
bo. 16 


182 . BOOK OF MOSIAR. 


death; because he had done no evil, neither was any de- 
ceit in his mouth. l i 
Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put him 
to grief; when thou shalt make, his soul an offering for 
sin, he shall see his seed, be shall prolong his days, and the 
pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall 
see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his 
knowledge shall my righteous seryant justify many; for he 
shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide hima 
portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with 
the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: 
and he wag numbered with the transgressors: and he bare 
the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. 
And now Abinadi said unto them, I would that ye should 
understand that God himself shall come down among the 
children of men, and shall redeem his people; and because 
he dwelleth in flesh, he shall be called the Son of God: 
and having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father, 
being the Father and the Son; the Father because he.was 
conceived by the power of God; and the Son, because of 
the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son: and the 
are one God, yea, the very eternal Father of heaven an 
of rib ; and thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, 
or the Son to the Father, being one God, suffereth tempta- 
tion, and yieldeth not to the temptation, but suffereth him- 
self to be mocked, and scourged, and cast out, and disown- 
ed by his people. And after all this, after working many 
mighty miracles among the children of men, he shall be 
Ted, yea, even as Isaiah said, as a sheep before the shearer 
is dumb, so he opened not his mouth; yea, even so he 
shall be led, crucified and slain, the flesh becoming sub- 
ject even unto death, the will of the Son being awal- 
owed up in the will of the Father; and thus God breaketh - 
the bands of death; having gained the victory ovey death; 
giving the Son power to make intercession for the ehildren 
of men; having ascended into heaven; having the bowels 
of mercy; being filled with compassion toward the chil- 
dren of men; standing betwixt them and justice; having 
broken the bands of death, taken upon himself their int- 
quity and their transgressions; having redeemed them, and 
satisfied the demands of justice. And now I gay unto you, 
who shall declare his generation? Behold, I say unto you, 
that when his soul has been made an offering for sin, he 
shall see his seed. And now what say ye? And who 
ehall be his seed? Behold I say unto you, that whosoever 
has-heard the words of the prophets, yea, all the holy pro- 
phets who have prophesied conceming the coming of the 





BOOK OF MOSIAH. 18 


Lord : I say unto you, that all those who have héarkened 
unto their words, and believed that the Lord would redeem 
„his people, and have looked forward to that day for a re- 
mission of their sins; I say unto you, that these are his seed, 
or they are heirs of the kingdom of God: for these are they 
whose sins he-has borne; these are they for whom he has 
died, to redeem them from their transgressions. And now, 
are they not his seed? Yea, and are not the prophets, 
— one that has opened his mouth to prophesy, that has 
not fallen into transgression; I mean al! the holy prophets 
ever since the world began? I say unto you that they are 
his seed; and those are they who have published peace, 
who have brought good tidings of good, who have publish- 
ed salvation; and said unto Zion, thy God reigneth! And 
O how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet! 
And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet 
of those that are still publishing peace! And again, how 
beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who 
shall hereafter publish peace, yea, from this time hence- 
forth and forever! And behold, I say unto you, this is not 
all: For O how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet 
of him that bringeth good tidings, that is the founder of 
peace; yea, even the Lord, who has redeemed his people; 
yea, him who has granted salvation unto his people: for 
were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his 
people, which was: prepared from the foundation of the 
world; I say unto you, were it not for this, all mankind 
must have perished. But behold, the bandsof death shall 
be broken, and the Son reigneth,'‘and hath power over the 
dead; therefore, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the 
dead. And there cometh a resurrection, even a first resur- 
tection; yea, even a resurrection of those that have been, 
and who are, and who shall be, even until the resurrection 
of Christ: for so shall he be called. And now, the resur- 
rection of all the prophets, and al! those that have believ- 
ed in their words, or all those that have kept the command- 
ments of God, shall come forth in the first resurrection; 
therefore, they are the first resurrection. They are raised 
to dwell with God who has redeemed them: thus ay 
have eternal life through Christ, who has broken the ban 
of death. And these are those who have part in the first 
resurrection; and these are they that have died before 
Christ came, in their a: D not having salvation de- 
elared unto them. And thus the Lord bringeth about the 
restoration of these; and they have a part in the first resur- 
rection, or have eternal life, being redeemed by the Lord. 
And little children also have eternal life. But behold, and 


{A ROOK OF NOMAN. 


fear, and tremble before God; for ye‘ought to tremble: for 
the Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him, and 
die in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in, 
their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfally 
sebelled against God, that have known the commaadments 
of God, and would not keep them; these are they that have 
no part in the first resurrection. Therefore had ye not. 
ought to tremble? For salvation cometh to none such; 
for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can 
the Lord redeem such: for he cannot deny himself; for he 
cannot deny justice when it has its claim. — 
And now l say unto you, that the time shall come that 
the salvation of the Lord shall be declared to every nation, 
kindred, tongue, and people. Yea, Lord, thy watehmen 
shall lift up their voice: ‘with the voice together shall. they 
sing; fort o shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall 
bring again Zion. Break forth into joy, sing together, ye 
waste places of Jerusalem: for the Lord hath comforted 
his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord hath 
made bare hie holy arm in the eyes of all the nations: and 
all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. 
And now it came to pass that after Abinadi had spoken 
these words, he stretched forth his hand and said, the time 
shall come when all shall eee the salvation of the Lord; 
when every nation, kindred, tongue and people, shall see 
eye to eye, and shall confess before God that hie judgmenta 
are just; and then shall the wieked be cast out, and th 
shail have cause to howl, and weep, and wail, and gnasi 
their teeth; and this because they would not hearken unte 
the voice of the Lord; therefore the Lord redeemeth them 
not, for they are carnal and devilish, and the devil has pow- 
er over them; yea, even that old gerpent that did beguile 
our first parents, which was the cause of their fall; which 
was the cause of all mankind becoming carnal, sensual, 
devilish, knowing evil from.good, subjecting themselves to 
the devil. Thus all mankind were lost; and behold, they 
would have been endlessly lost; were it not that God re~ 
deemed his people from their lost and fallen state. But 
remember, that he that persists in hisown carnal nature, 
end goes on in the ways of sin and rebellion against God, 
remaineth in his fallen state, and the devil hath all power 
over him. Therefore he ises though there was no rede 
tion made; being an enemy toGod; and also is the devil an: 
enemy toGod. And now if Christ had not come into the 
world, speaking of things to come, as though they hed al- 
ready come, there could have been no redemption. And if 
Christ had not risen from the dead, orhave broken the bands 





BOOK OF MOSIAH. . ' 185 


of death thatthe grave should have no victory, and that death 
should have no sting, there could have been no resurrection, 
But there is a resurrection, therefare the grave hath no vic- 
tory,and the sting of death is swallowed up in Christ. He 
is the light and the life of the world; yea, a light that is 
endless, that can never be darkened; yea, and also a lifé 
which is éndless, that there can be no more death., Even 
this mortal shall put immortality, and this corruption shall 
put on incorruption, and shall be hrought to stand ‘before 
the bar of God, to be judged of him according to their 
works, whether they be good or whether they be evil. If 
they be goad, to the resurrection of endless life and happi- 
ness, and if they bo evil, to the resurrection of endless 
damnation; being delivered up to the devil, who hath sub- 
jected them, which is damnation; having gone accordin 
to their own carnal wills and desires; having never calle 
upon the Lord while the arms of mercy were extended 
towards them; for the arms of mercy were extended to- 
wards them, and they would not; they being warned of 
their iniquitigs, and yet they would not depart from them; 
and they, were commanded to repent, and yet they would not 
repent, And now had ye.not ought to tremble and repent 
of your sins, and remember only in and through Christ ye 
can be saved? Therefore, if ye teach the law of Moses, 
also teach that it is a shadow of those things which are to ` 
come; teach them that redemption cometh through Christ 
the Lord, who is the very eternal Father. Amen. 


— æ- 


CHAPTER IX. 


Aup now it came to pass that when Abinadi had finished 
these sayings, that the king commanded that the priests 
should take him and cause that he should be put to death. 
But there was one among them, whose name was Alma, 
healso being a descendant of Nephi. And he was a young 
man, and he believed the words which Abinadi had spoken, 
for he knew concerning the iniquity which Abinadi had 
testified against them: Therefore he began to plead with 
the king that he would not be angry with Abinadi, but 
saffer that he might depart: in peace. But the king was 
more wroth, ond caused that Alma should be cast out from 
among thom, and sent his servants after him, that they 
night slay him. But ho sere from before them, and hid 

` f 1 


` 


138: BOON: OF. nostan. 


himecif, that they found him not. And he, being. coneesl- 
od for many days, did write all the words: which Abinedi: 
had spoken.. ° . 

And it came to pases- that the king caused that his guards’ 
should surround Abinadi, and take him; and they bound 
him and cast him into prison. And after three days, hav- 
` ing counselled with his priesta, he caused that Ae should 
again be brought before him. Ahd he said unto him, 
Abinadi, we have found an accusation against thee, and 
thou art worthy of death. For thou has said that God him- 
self should come down among the children of men; and 
now for this cause thou shalt be put to death, unless.thou 
wilt recall all the words which thou hast spoken evil cone. 
cerning me and my people. paa 

Now Abinadi said unto him: I say unto you, I will not 
recall the words which I have spoken unto you coneernin 
this people, for they are true; and that ye may know 
their surety, I have suffered nryself that 1 have fallen into 
hal hands, Yea, and I will suffer even until death, and 

‘will not recall my words, and they shall stand as a testi- 
mony againet you. And if ye slay me, ye will shed inno- 
cent blood, and this shall also'stand as a testimony against 
you at the last day. 

And now king Noah was about to release him, for he 
feared his word; for he feared that the judgments of God 
would come upon him. But the priests lifted up their voices 
against him, and began to accuse. him, saying: He has 
reviled the king. . Therefore the king was stirred up in 
anger against him, and he delivered him up, that he might 
be slain. ' ` 

_And it came to pass that they took him, and scourged 
his skin with faggots, yea, even unto death.. And now 
when the flames began to scorch him, he cried unto them, 
saying: , Behold, even as ye have done unto me, po shall it 
come- to pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall auf- 
fer, even the pains of death, by fire; and this because the 
believe in the salvation of the Lord their God, And it will. 
come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all manner of 
diseases; because of your iniquities. Yea and ye shall be 
smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and scattered: 
to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and fero- 
cious beasts. And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye 
shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye: 
shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire.» Thus: 
God executeth vengeance upon those that destroy hia peo- 
pa O God, feceive my soul. And now when Abinadi 

ad said these words, he fell; having suffered death by 


* BOOK OF MOSIAH. 187° 


fire; yea, having been put to death because he would not 
deny the commandments of God: having scaled the truth 
of his words by his death. 

And now that it came to pass that Alma, who had fled 
from thé servants of king Noah, repented of his sins and 
iniqùities, and went about privately among the people, 
and began to teach the words of Abinadi; yea, concern- 
ing that which was to come, and also concerning the resur- 
rection of the dead, and the redemption of the people, which 
wasto be brought to pass through the power, and suffer- 
ings, and death of Christ, and his resurrection and ascen- 
sion into heaven. And as many as would hear his word 
he did teach. And he taught them privately, that it might 
not come to the knowledge of the king. And many did 
bilieve his words. And it came to pasa that as many as 
did believe him, did go forth to a place which was called 
Mormon, having received its name from the king, being 
in the borders of the land having been infested, by times, 
OF at seasons, by wild beasts. ` Now there was in Mormon 
a fountain of pure water, and Alina resorted thither, there 
being near the water a thicket of small trees, where he did 
hide himself in the day time, from the searches of the king. 
And it came to pass hat as many as believed him, went 
thither to hear his words. And it came to Pe after many 
days, there were a goodly number gathered together to the 
place of Mormon, to hear the words of Alma. Yea-all 
were gathered together that believed on his word, to hear 
him. And he did teach them, and did preach unto them 
repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord. 

And it came to pass that he said unfo them, behold, here 
ave the waters of Mormon; for thus were they called. And 
now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and 
to be called his people, and are willing to bear one anoth- 
er’s burdens, that they may be light: yea, and are willing 
to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those 
that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of 
God at all times, and in all things, and in all places that ye 
may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of 
God, and be numbered with those of tHe first resurrection, 
that ye may have eternal life. Now Isay unto you, if this be 
the desire of your hearts, what have you against being bap- 
tized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that 
re have entered into a covenant with him that ye will serve 

im and keep his commandments? that he may pour out 
his spirit more abundantly upon you. And now when the 
people had heard these words, they clapped their hands for 
joy, and exclaimed, this is the desire of our hearts. 


188 BOOK OF MOSIAH. 


And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam, he be- 
ing one of.the first, and went and stood forth in the water,. 
and cried, saying, O Lord, pour out thy spirit upon thy ser- 
vant, that he may do this work with Holiness of heart. And 
when he had said these words, the spirit of the Lord was 
upon him, and he said, Helam, I baptize thee, having au- 
thority from the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye ve 
entered into a covenant toserve him until you are dead, as 
to the mortal body; and may the spirit of the Lord be pour- 
ed out upon you: and may he grant unto you eternal life, 
through the redemption of Christ, whom he has prepared 
from the foundation of the world. And after Alma had 
said these words, both Alma and Helam were buried in the 
water; and they arose and came forth out of the water re- 
joicing, being filled with the spirit. And again, Alma 
took another, and went forth a second time into the water, 


‘and baptized him according to the first, only he did not 


bury himself again in the water. And after this manner 
he did baptize every one that went forth to the place of 
Mormon: and they ware in number ebout two hundred and 
four souls; yea, and they were baptized in the waters of 
Mormon, and were filled with the grace of God: and they 
were called the church of God, or the church cf Christ, 
from that time forward. 

And it came to pass that whosoever was baptized by 
the power and authority of God, was added to hie church. 

And it came to pass that Alma, having — from 
God, ordained priests; even one priest to every fifty of 
their number did he ordain to preach unto them, and to 
teach them concerning the things pertaining tothe kingdom 
ofGod. And he commanded them that they should teaeh 
nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and 
which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets. 
Yea, even he commanded them that they should — no- 
thing save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who 
had redeemed his people. And he commanded them that 
there should be no contention one with another, but that 
they should look forward with one eye, having one faith and 
one baptism; having their hearts knit together in unity and 
in love, one towards another. And thus he commanded 
them to preach. And thus they became the children of 
God. And he commanded them that they should observe 
the'Sabbath day, and keep it holy, and also every day they 
should give thanks to the Lord their God. And he also 
commanded them that the priests, whom he had ordained, 
should labor with their own hands for their support; and 
there was one day in every week that was set apart that 





Cg ee ee Ot ea — Fig OE Wa TY Oe FN ee See a TA 


neck oF Noman. 13 


thay should gather themselves together to teach the pey» 
pit, and to worship the Lord their God, and alzo as often 
as it was in their power, to assemble themasęlves together. : 
And the priests were not to dépend upon the poople for 
their support; but for their labor they were to receive the 
ce of God, that they, might wax strong ‘in the spirit, 
aving the knowledge of God, that they might teach with 
power and authority from God: And again, Alma com- 
manded that the people of the church should impart of 
their substance, every one according to that which ho had; 
if he have more abundantly, he should impart more abu 
dantly; and he that had but little, but little should be re- 
uired; and to him thet had not should be given. And 
us they should impart of their substance, of their own 
free will and good desires towards God, and to those priesta 
that stood in need, yea, and to every needy, naked soul. 
And this he said unto them, having been commanded of 
God; and they did walk uprightly before God, imparting 
to one another, both temporally and spiritually, according 
to their needs and their wants. 

And now it came to pass that all this was done in More 
mon; yea, by the waters of Morman, in the forest that waa 
near the waters of Mormon: yea, the place of Mormom, 
the waters of Mormon, the forest of Mormon, how beau- 
tiful are they to the eyes of them who there came to the 
knowledge of their Redeemer; yea, and how blessed are 
they, for they shall sing to his praise forever. And these 
things were dong in the borders of the land, that they 
might not come to the knowledge of the king. But be 
hold, it came to pase that the king, having discovered a 
movement among the people, sent his servants to watch 
them. Therefore on the day thet they were assembling 
themselves together to hear the word of the Lord, they 
were discovered unto the king.’ And new the king said 
that Alma was stirring up the people to rebellion against 
him; therefore he sent his army to destroy thom. And it 
came to pase that Alma, and the people of the Lord, were 
apprised of the coming of the king’s army; therefore they 
took their tents and their families, and departed into the 
wilderness. And they were in number about four hune 
dred and fifty souls. 

And it came to pass that the army of the king returned, 
having searched in vain for the people of the Lord. And 
now behold, the forces of the bing were small, having 
been reduced, and there began to be a division among the 
temainder of the people. And the lesser part began to 
breathe out threatnings against the king, and there be- 


3199 BOOK OF NOSIAR. 


gan to bea great contention among them. And now there 
was a man among them whose name was Gideon, and he 
being a strong man, and an enemy tb the king, therefore 
he drew his sword and swore in his wrath, that he would 
slay the king. And it came to pass that he fought with 
the king;-and when the king saw that he was about to 
overpower him, he fied and ran and got upon the tower, 
which was near the temple. And Gideon pursued after 
him, and was about to get upon the tower toslay the king, 
and the king cast his eyes round about towards the land 
of Shemlon, and behold, the army of the Lamanites were 
within the borders of the land. And now the king cried 
out in the anguish of his soul, saying, Gideon, spare me, 
for the Lamanites are upon us, and they will destroy them; 
yea, they will destroy my people. And now the king was 
not so much concerned about his people, as he was about 
his own life; nevertheless, Gideon did spare his life. And 
the king commanded the people that they should flee be- 
fore the Lamanites, and he himself did go before them, 
and they did flee into the wilderness with their women 
and their children, And it came to pass that the Laman- 
ites did pursue them, and did overtake them, and began to 
slay them. : 

Now it came to pass that the king commanded them 
that all the men should leave their wives and their chil- 
dren, and flee before the Lamanites. Now there were 
many that would not leave them, but had rather stay and 
perish with them. And the rest left their wives and their 
children and fled, 

And it came to pass that those who tarried with their 
wives and their children, caused that their fair daughters 
should stand forth and plead with the Lamanites, that they 
would not slay them. And it came to pass that the La- 
manites had compassion on them, for they were charmed 
with the beauty of their women; therefore the Lamanites 
did spare their lives, and took them captives, and carried 
them back ‘to the land of Nephi, end granted unto them 
that they i possess the land, under the conditions that 
they would deliver up king Noah into the hands of the 
Lamanites, and deliver up their property, even one half of 
all they possessed; one half of their go d, and their silver, 
and all their precious things; and thus they should pay 
tribute to the king of the Lamanites, from year to year.— 
And now there was one of tho sons of the king among 
those that were taken captive, whose name was Limhi 
And now Limhi was desirous that his father should not 


BOOK OF NOMAR. 191 


be destroyed; nevertheless, Limhi was not ignorant of the 
mgn jee of his father, he himself, being a just man, 
nd it came to pass thet Gideon sent men into the wil- 
derness secretly, to search for the king, and those that 
were with him. ‘And it came to at they: met the 
people in the wilderness, all save the king and his priests. 
ow they hed sworn in their hearts that they would re- 
turn tothe land of Nephi, and if their wives and their 
children were slain, and also those that had tarried with 
them, that they would seek revenge, and also perish with 
them. And the king commanded them that fiey should 
not return; and they were angry with the king, and caused 
that he should suffer, even unto death by fire. And they 
were about to take the priests also and put them to death, 
and they fled before them. 

And it came pass that they were about to return to the 
land of Nephi; and they met the men of Gideon. And the 
men of Gideon told them of alt that had happened to their 
wives and — — — the mane had 
granted unto thém that they might possess the land by pay- 
* a tribute to the Larsantses Sf óne half of all they * 
sessed. And the people told the men of Gideon that thoy 
had slain the king, and his priests had fled from them far- 
ther into the wildernees. And it.came to pass that after 
they had ended the ceremony, that they returned to the 
land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their wives and their 
children were not slain; and they told Gideon what they 
had gone to the king. 

And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made 
an oath unto them that his people should not slay them. - 
And also Limhi, being the son of the king, having the 
kingdom conferred upon him by the people, made oath un- 
to the king of the Lamanites, that his people should pay 
tribute unto him, even one half of all they possessed. 

And it camo to pass that Limhi began to establish the 
kingdom, and to establiah peace among his people. And 
the king of the Lamanites set guards round about the 
and, that he might keep the people of Limhi in the land, 
that they might not depart inta the wilderness; and he did 
support his guards out of the tribute which he did receive 
from the Nephites. And now king Limhi did have cone 
tinual peace in his kingdom, for the space of two years, 
that the Lamanites did not molest them nor seek to deatroy 
them. 

Now there wasa place in Shemlon, where the daugh- 
ters of the Lamanites did gather themselves together to 

sing, and to dance, and to make themselves merry. And 


190 BOOK OF MOSIAR. 


gan to bea great contention among them. And nowthere 
was a man among them whose name was Gideon, and he 
being a strong man, and an enemy tb the king, therefore 
he drew his sword and swore in his wrath, that he would 
slay the king. And it came to pass that he fought with 
the king; -and when the king saw that he was about to 
overpower him, he fied and ran and got upon the tower, 
which was near the temple. And Gideon pursued after 
him, and was about to get upon the tower to slay the king, 
and the king cast his eyes round about towards the land 
of Shemlon, and behold, the army of the Lamanites were 
within the borders of the land. And now the king cried 
out in the anguish of his soul, saying, Gideon, spare me, 
for the Lamanites are upon us, and they will destroy them; 
yea, they will destroy my people. And now the king was 
not so much concerned about his people, as he was about 
his own life; nevertheless, Gideon did spare his life. And 
the king commanded the people that they should flee be- 
fore the Lamanites, and he himself did go before them, 
and they did flee into the wilderness with their women 
and their children. And it came to pass that the Laman- 
ites did pursue them, and did overtake them, and began to 
age them. : | 

ow it came to pass that the king commanded them 
that all the men should leave their wives and their chil- 
dren, and flee before the Lamanites. Now there were 
many that would not leave them, but had rather staf and 
perish with them. And the rest left their wives and their 
children and fled. 

And it came to pass that those who tarried with their 
wives and their children, caused that their fair daughters 
should stand forth and plead with the Lamanites, that they 
would not slay them. And it came to pass that the La- 
manites had — on them, for they were charmed 
with the beauty of their women; therefore the Lamanites 
did spare their lives, and took them captives, and carried 
them back ‘to the land of Nephi, and granted unto them 
that they eu possess the land, under the conditions that 
they would deliver up king Noah into the hands of the 
Lamanites, and deliver up their property, even one half of 
all they possessed; one half of their gold, and their silver, 
and all their precious things; and thus they should pay 
tribute to the king of the Lamanites, from year to year— 
And now there was one of the sons of the king among 
those that were taken captive, whose name was Limhi.— 
And now Limhi was desirous that his father should not 


JOOX oF NOSAR. 191 


be destroyed; nevertheless, Limhi was not ignorant of the 
iniquities of his father, he himself, being a just man. 

And it came to pass that Gideon sent men into the wile 
derness secretly, to search for the king, and those that 
were with him. “And it came to at they: met the 
people in tke wilderness, all save the king and his priests. 

ow they had sworn in their hearts that they would re- 
turn to the land of Nephi, and if their wives and their 
children were slain, and also those that had tarried with 
them, that they would seek revenge, and also perish with 
them. And the king commanded them that they should 
not return; and they were angry with the king, and caused 
that he shonld suffer, even unto death by fire. And théy 
were about to take the priests also and put them to death, 
and they fled before them. 

And it came pass that they were about to return to the 
land of Nephi, and they met the men of Gideon. And the 
men of Gideon told them of all that had happened to their 
wives and their children; and that the — had 
granted unto thèm that they might possess the land by pay- 
ing a tribute to the Lamanites of one half of all they pos- 
sessed. And the people told the men of Gideon that they 
had slain the king, and his priests had fled from them far- 
ther into the wilderness. And it.came to pass that after 
they had ended the ceremony, that they returned to the 
land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their wives and their 
children were not slain; and they told Gideon what they 
had gone to the king. 

And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made 
an oath unto them that his people should not slay them.— 
And also Limhi, being the son of the king, having the 
kingdom conferred upon him by the people, made oath un- 
to the ‘king of the Lamanites, that his people should pay 
tribute unto him, even one half of all they possessed. 

And it came to pass that Limhi began to establish the 
kingdom, and to establish peace among his people. And 
the king of the Lamanites set guards round about the 
Íand, that he might keep the people of Limhi in the land, 
that they might not depart into the wilderness; and he did 
support his guards out of the tribute which he did receive 
from the Nephites. And now king Limhi did have cone 
tinual peace in his kingdom, for the space of two years, 


that the Lamanites did not molest them nor seek to destroy — 


them. 

Now there wasa place in Shemlon, where the daugh- 
ters of the Lamanites did gather themselves together to 
sing, and to dance, and to make themselves merry. And 


18 BOOK OF MOSTAR, 


it came to poss that there was one day a small number of 
them gathered together to sing and to dance. Add now. 
the priests of king Noah, being ashamed to retarà to the 
eity of Nephi, yea, and alse fearing that the people would 
slay them, therefore they durst not return to their wives 
nee | their children. And having tarried in the wilderness, 
and having discovered the daughters of the’ Lamanites; 
they laid and watched them; and when‘there were but 
few of them gathered together to dance, they came forth 
out of their secrot places, and took them and carried thent 
into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four of the daagh- 
ters of the Lamanites they carried into the wilderness. - 

-And it came to pass that when the Lomanites found that 
their daughters had been missing, they were angry with 
the people of Limhi; for they thought it was the péople 
of imhi. Therefore thay sent their armies forth; yea, 
even the kipg himself went before his people; and they 
went up to the land of Nephi, to destroy the peoplé of 
Limhi. And now Limhi had discoyered them from the 
tower; even all their preparations for war did he discover; 
therefore he gathered his people together, and laid wait for 
them in the fields, and in the forests. And it came to 
pass that when the Lamanites had come up, that the peo- 
ple of Limhi began to fall upon them from their waiting 
places, and began to slay them. 

And it came to pass that the battle became exceeding 
sore, for they fought like lions for their prey. And it came 
to pass that the people of Limhi began to drive the La- 
manites before them, yet they were not half so numerous 
ee the Lamanites. But they fought for their ltves, and for 
their wives, and for their children; therefore they exerted 
themselves, and liko dragons did they fight. 

And it came to pass that they found the king of the La- 
manites among the number of ‘the dead; yet he was not 
dead, having been wounded and left upon the greund, so 
speedy was the flight of his people. And they took him 
and bound up his wounds, and brought him before Limhi, 
and said, behold, here is the king of the Lamanites; he 
having received a wound, has fallen emong their dead, 
and they have left him; and behold, we have brought him 
before you; and now let us slay him. But Limhi said un- 
to them, ye shali not slay him, but bring: him hither, that 
I may see him. And they brought kim.. And Limhi said 
unto him, what cause have ye to come up to war against 
my people? Behold, my people have hot broken the oath 
that I made unto you; therefore, why should ye break the 
oath which ye made unto my people? And now the king 





BOOK OF MOSIAH. ° 193 


seid, E have broken the oath, because Ey pore did carry 
he daughters of my people; therefore in my anger 
did i cause = people to come up to war against thy peo- 
ple. Now Limhi had heard nothing concerning this mat- 
ter; therefere he said, I will search among my people, and 
whosoever has done this thing shall perish. T erefore he 
caused a search to be made among his people. Now when 
Gideon had hęard these things, Re being the king's cap- 
tein, he went forth and said unto the king, I pray thee for- 
bear, and do not search this people, and tay not this thin 
to their charge. For do ye not remember the priests o 
thy father, whom this people sought to destroy? And are 
they not if the wilderness? And are not they the ones 
who have stolen the daughters of the Lamanites? And 
now behold, and teil the king of these things, that he may 
tell his people, that they may be pacified towards us: for 
behold they are already preparing to come against us; and 
behold also, thero are but few of us. And behold, they 
come with their numerous hosts; and acer the king 
doth pacify them towards us, we must perish. For are 
not the words of Abinadi fulfilled; which he prophesied 
against ua? and all this because we would not hearken un- 


to.the word of the Lord, and turn from our iniquities? And . 


now let us pacify the king, and we fulfil the oath which 
we have made unto him: for it is better that we should be 
in bondage, than that we should lose our lives; therefore, 
let us put a sop to the shedding of so much blood. And 
now: Lin»hi told the king all the things concerning his fa- 
ther, and the priests that had fled into the wilderness, and 
attributed the carrying away of their daughters to them. 

, And it came to pass that the king was pacified towards 
his people; and he said unto them, let us go forth to meet 
my people, without arms; and I swear unto you with an 
oath, that my. people shall not slay thy people. And it 


came to pass that they followed the king, and went forth 


without arms to meet the Lamanites. And it came to pass 
that they did meet the Lamanites; and the king‘of the La- 
manites did bow himself down before them, and did plead 
in behalf of the people of Limhi. And when the Laman- 
ites saw the people of Limhi, that they were without arms, 
they had compassion on them, and were pacified towards 
— and returned with their king in peaco to their own 
d : 


And it came to pass that Limhi and his people returned 
to the city of Nephi, and began to dwell in the land again 
in peace. And it came to pes that after many days, the 


r 


104: : ‘HOOK OF MOSLAH. 


hamanites began again-tobe stirred up in anger agaist the- 
Nephites; and they began to come inta the borders of the 
land round about. Now: they duret not dlay them, because 
of the oath which their king had made unto Limhi;. but 
they. would smite them on their cheeks, and: exercise au- 
thority over them; and began to put heavy: burdens upon: 
their backs, and drive them as they would a dumb ass; yea, 
all thia was done, that the word of the Lord might be ful- 
filled. And noy the afflictions of the i ceed great; 
and there was no way that they could deliver themselves 
out of their hands, forthe Lamanites had surrounded them 
on every. side. | "oe BS 
And it came to pass that.the people began to murmur 
with the king, because of their afflictions; and they. began 
to be desirous to go against thèm to battle. And they did 
afflict the king sorely with their complaints; therefgre he 
ranted unto them that they.should do according to their 
esires, And they gathered themselves together agairt, and 
put on their-armour, and went forth against the Lamanites, 
‘to drive them out of their land. | And it came to pass that 
the Lamanites did beat them, and drave them back, and 
slew many of them; And now there was.a great mourning 
and lamentation among the people of Limhi: the wid- 
ow mourning for'her husband: the son and the daughter 
mourning for their father; and the brothers for their breth- 
ren. Now there were a great many widows in the land; 
and they did cry mightily from day to day, for a great fear 
of the Lamanites had come upon them. And it eame to 
pass that their continual cries did stir up the remainder of 
the people of Limhi to anger, against the Lamanites. And 
they. went again to battle; but they were driven back 
again, suffering much loss. Yea, they went again, even 
the third time, and suffered in the like manner; and those 
that were not slain, returned again to the city.of Nephi. 
And bea humble themselves even to the dust, subject- 
ing themBelves to the yoke of bondage, submitting them- 
selves to be smitten, and to be: driven to and fro, and bur- 
dened, accarding to the desires of their enemies. And they 
did humble-themselves even in the depths of humility; and 
they did cry mightily to God; yea, even all the day long: 
did they cry unto their God, that he would deliver them out 
of. their: afflictions. And now the Lord was slow to hear 
their cry, because of their iniquities; nevertheless the Lord - 
did hear their cries,;.and began to, soften the hearts of the 
Lamanites, that they began to ease their burdens; yet the: 
Lord did not gee fit to deliver them out of'bondage. 
‘And it came to pass that they began to prosper by de- 


Se aS ee ——— —— 


BOOK OF ‘MOSTAR. 1% 


grees in the land, and began to raise gfain more abundant 
-and Hocks, and herds, that they’ did aot suffer with me 
Now there was a great number of women more than there 
was of men; therefore king Limhi commanded that ever 
-man should impart to the support of the widows and their 
-children, that they might not perish with hunger; and this 
they did, because of the greatness of their number that had 
‘been slain. Now the people of Limhi kept together in a 
-body as much as it was possible, and secure their grain, 
and their flocks; and the king himself did not trust his 
person without the walls of the city, unless he took his 
‘uatds with him, fearing that he igh: by some means fall 
mto the hands.of the Lamanites. And he caused that his 
peoplé should watch the land round about, that by some 
means they might take those priests that fled into the wil- 
derness, who had stolen the daughters of the Lamanites, 
and that had caused such a great déstraction to come upon 
them; for they were.desirous to take them, that they might 
punish them: for they had come into the land of Nephi by 
night, and carried off their grain, and many of their pre» 
cious things; therefore they laid wait for them. 
, And it came to pass that there was no more disturbance 
between the Lamanites and the people of Limhi, even un- 
til the time that Ammon and his brethren came into the 
land. And the king having been without the gates of the 
ay with his guard, discovered Ammon and his brethreh; 
and supposing them to be priests of Noah, therefore he . 
caused that they should be taken, and: bound, and cast inte 
rison. And had they been the priests of Noah, he would 
have caused that they should be put to death; but when 
he found that they were not, but that they were his breth- 
ren, and had come from the land of Zarahemla, he was 
filled with exceeding great joy. Now king Limhi had sent, 
previous to the coming of Ammon, a small number of men 
to searoh for the land of Zarahemla; but they could not find 
it, and they were lobt in the wilderness. Nevertheless th 
did find aland which had been peopled; yea, a land whic 
was covered with dry bones;. yea, a land which had been 
peopled, and which had been destroyed; and they having 
supposed it to be the land of Zarahemla, returned to the 
land of Nephi, having arrived in the borders of the land 
hot many days before the cqming of Ammen. And they 
brought a record with them, even a record of the people 
whose bones they had found; and they were engraven on 
plates of ore. And now Limhi was again filled with joy, 
on learning from the mouth of Ammon that king Mosiah 
had a-gift from God, whereby he could interpret such en- 


196 BOOK OF MOSIAH. 


gravings; yea, and Ammon also did rejoice. Yet Ammon 
and his brethren were filled with sorrow, because so man 
of their brethren had been slain; and also that king Noa 
and his priests had caused the people to commit so many 
sins and iniquities against God: and they also did mourn 
for the death of Abinadi; and also for the departure of Al- 
ma, and the people that went with him, who had formed a 
church of God through the strength and power of God, and 
faith-on the words which had been spoken by Abinadi; 
yea, they did mourn for their departure, for they knew not 
whither they had fled. Now they would have gladly join- 
ed with them, for they themselves had entered into a coy- 
enant with God, to serve him, and keep his command- 
ments. And now since the coming of Ammon, king Limhi 
had also entered into a covenant with God, and also many 
of his people, to serye him, and keep his commandments. 

And it came to pass that king Limhi and many of hia 
people were desirous to be baptized;: but there was none 
in the land that had authority from God. And Ammon 
declined doing this thing, considering himself an unworthy 
servant; therefore they did not at that time form themselves 
into a church, waiting upon the spirit of the Lord. Now 
they were desirous to become even as Alma and his breth- 
ren, who had fled into the wilderness. They were desirous 
to be baptized, as a witness and a testimony that they were 
willing to serve God with al} there hearts; nevertheless 
they did prolong the time; and an account of their baptism 
shall be given hereafter. And now all the study of Am- 
mon and his people, and king Limhi and his people, was 
to deliver themselves out of the hands of the Lamanites, 
and from bondage. 


' 
Y 


CHAPTER X. 


AnD now it came to pass that Ammon and king Limhi 
began to consult with the people how they should deliver 
themselves out of bondage; and even they did cause that 
all the people should gather themselves together; and this 


_ they did that they might have the voice of the people cone 


cerning the matter.. And it came to pass that they could 
find no way to deliver themselves out of bondage, except 
it were to take their women and children, and their flocks, 
and their herds, and their tents, and depart into the wil- 


_derness; for the Lamanites being ao numerous that it was 


WOOK OF MOSTAR. 197 


impossible for the peeple of Limhi to contend with them, 
thinking to deliver themselves out of bondage by the sword 

Now it came to pass that Gideon went forth and stood 
defore the king, and said unte him, now O king, thou hast 
hitherto hearkened unto my words many times when we 
have been‘contending with our brethren, the. Lamanites, 
And now O kins, if thou hast not found me to be an un-e 
profitable servant, or if thou hast hitherto listened to my 
words in any degree, and they have been of service to thee, 
even so desire that thou wouldst listen to my words at 
this time, and I will be thy servant, and deliver this people 
out of bondage. And the king granted unto him that he 
might speak. And Gideon said unto him, behold the back 
pass through the back wall, on the back side of the city. 

e Lamanites, or the guards of the Lamanites, by night, 
are drunken; therefore let us send a proclamation amon 
all this people, that they gather together their flocks a 
herds, that they may drive them into the wilderress 
night. And I will. go according to thy command, and pey 
the last tribute of wine to the Lamanites, and they will be 
drunken; and we will pass through the secret pass on the 
left of the camp, when they are drunken and asleep; thus 
we will depart with our women and oar children, our flocke 
and our herds, into the wilderness; and we will travel 
around the land of Shilom. And it came to pass that the 
king hearkened unto the words of Gideon. And king Lim- 
hi caused that his people sheuld gather their flocks togeth- 
er; and he sent the tribute of wine to the Lamanites; and 
he also sent more wine, as a present unto them; and they 
did drink freely of the wine which king Limhi did send 
Unto them, i ' 

And it came to pass that the people of king Limhi did 
depart by night into the wilderness with their flocks and 
their herds, and they went round about the land of Shilom 
in the wilderness, and bent their course towards the len 
of Zanhemla, being led by Ammon and his brethren. And 
they had taken all their gold, and silver, and their precious 
things, which they could cary: and algo their provisions 
With them, into the wilderness; and they pursued their 
Journey. And after being many days in the wilderness, 
they arrived in ‘he land of Zarahemla, and joined his peo~ 
pre, and became his subjects. Aud it came to poss that 

osiah received them with joy; and he aiso received their 
Tecords, and also the records which had been found by the 
People of Limhi, And now it came to pass when the La- 
manites hed found that the peopte of Limbi had departed 

17 


198 BOOK OF MOSIAR. 


out of :the land by night, that they sent an into the 
wilderness to pursne them; and after they had pursued 
them two days, they could no longer follow their tricks. 
therefore they were lost in the wilderness. ‘ 


° 
é 


—2+o— 


` CHAPTER XI. 


An account of Alma end the people of the Lord, who were ` 
driven into the wilderness by the people of king Noah. 


Now Alma, having been warned of the Lord that the 
armies of king Noah would come upon them, and had made 
it known to his people, therefore they gathered together 
their flocks, and took of their grain, and departed into the 
wilderness before the armies of king Noah. And the Lord 
did strengthen them, that the people of king Noah could 
not overtake them, to destroy them. And they fled eight 
days’ journey into the wilderness. And her came to a 
land, yea, even a very beautiful and pleasant land; a land 
of pure water. And they pitched their tents, and began to: 
till the ground, and began to build buildings, &c; yea, 
they were industrious, and did labor oxcee ingly. And 
the people were desirous that Alma‘should be their king, 
for he was beloved by his people. But he said unto them, 
behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for 
thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem one flesh above 
ehother, or one man shalbnot think himself above another; 
therefore I say unto you, it is not expedient that ye shonid 
bave a king. Nevertheléss, if it were possible that ye could 
always have just men:to be your kings, it ld be well 
for you to have a king. Bat remember the iniquity of king 
Noah and his priests; and I myself was caught in a snare, 
and did many things which were abominable in the sight 
of the Lord, which caused me sore repentance; neverthe- 
less, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my cries, 
and did answer my prayers, and has made me an instru- 
ment in his hands, in bringing so many of you to a know- 
ledge of his truth. Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, 
for I am unworthy to glory of — And now I say unto 

ou, ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and have been 
in bondage to him and his priests, and have been brought 
into iniquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the 
bands of iniquity. And now as ye have been delivered, by 
the power of God, out of these bonds; yes, even out of the 


ROOK OF MOstAR. 198 


heads of king Noah and his e, and also from the bonds 
of iniquity, even so I desire that ye should, stand fast in 
thia liberty wherewith ye have been made free, and that ye 
trust no man to be a king over you; and also — no 
one to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a. 
man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his com- 
mandments. Thus did’ Alma teach his people, that eve 
man should love his neighbor as himself; that there shoule 
be no contention among them. And now Alme was their 
high priest, he being the founder of their church. And it 
came to pass that none received authority to preach or td 
teach, except it were by him from God. ‘Therefore he con- 
secrated all their priests, and all their teachers, and none 
were consecrated areeni they were just men. Therefore 
they did watch over their people, and did nourish them 
with things pertaining to righteousness. And it came to 
pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in the lands 
end they called the land Helam. And it came to pass that 
they, did multiply and prosper exceedingly in the land of 
Helam; and they built a city, which they called the city 
of Helam. Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his 
peoplep yea, he trieth their patience and their faith. Nev- 
ertheless, whosoever putteth his trust in him, the game 
shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was 
with this people. For behold, I will shew unto yeu that 
they were brought into bondage, and none could deliver 
them but the Lord their God; yea, even the God of Abra» 
ham and Isane, and of Jacob. And it came to pass that he 
did deliver them, and did shew forth his mighty power uns- 
to them, and great were their rejoicings. 

For behold, it came to pass that wnile they were in the 
land of Helam, yes, in the oity of Helam, while tilling the 
lend round about, behold an army of the Lamanites were 
in the borders of the land. Now it came to pass that the 
brethren of Alma fled from their fields, and gathered thome 
selves together into the city of Helam; and they were much 
frightened because of the appearance of the Lamanites. 
But Alma went forth and stood among them, and exhorted 
them that they should not be frightened, but that they 
should remember the Lord their God, and he would deliver 
them; therefore they hushed their fears, and began to cry 
unto the Lord, that he would soften the hearts of the La» 
manites, that they would spare them, and their wives, and 
their children. And it came to pass that the Lord did soften 
the hearts of the Lamanites. And Alma and his brethren 
went forth and delivered themselves up into their hands; 
tad the Lamanites took possession of. the land of Helam. 


s ate die donit, 


Now thearmies of the Lamanités which had fotlowed diter 
the people of king Limhi, liad been lést in the wilderness 
for many days, And'behold, they had found those priests 
of king Noah, in a place which t ey called Amulon; and 
they had began to posses the land of Amuion, and had bo 
gen to till the ground, Now the name of the leader of 
those priests was Amulon. And it came to pass that Ané 
tion did plead with the Lamanites; and he wiso sent forth 
their wives, who were the daughters of the Lamanitex, td 
lead with their brethren, that’ they should not destroy their 
usbands. And the Lamanites had compassion on Amu 
lon and his bréthren, and did not destroy them, because of 
their wives. And Amulon and his brethren did join the 
Lamanites, and they were travelling in the wilderness ih 
‘search of the land of Nephi, when they discovered the farid 
of Helam, which was possessed by Alma and his brethren. 
And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Al: 
ma and his brethren, that if they would shew them the 
way wliich led to,thé land of Nephi, that they would graitt 
unto them their lives and their liberty. But after Alms 
had shown them the way that led to the land of ma dae the 
Lamanites would not keep their promise; but tlrey set 
ards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his 
rethren. And the remainder of them went to the land of 
Nephi; and a part of them returned to the land of Hetan, 
and aiso brought with them the wives and the children of 
the guards who had been teft in the land. And the king 
of the Lamanites had granted unto‘Amulon that he shoul 
be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the lind 
of Helam; nevertheless'he should have no power to do any 
thing contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites. 
And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the 
ex of the king of the Lamanites; therefore the king of 
Lameanites granted unto him and his brethren, that th 
should be appointed teachers over his people; yea, eve 
aver the people who were in the land of Shemlon, and in 
the jand of Shilom, and in the land of Amulon; for the La< 
teanités had taken possession of áll these lands; therefor’ 
the king of the Lamonites had 4ppointed kings over «ff 
these lands. And row the'name of the king of the Larian- 
ites was Laman, being called after the name of his fathers 
and therefore he was called king Lamen. Anti hé wed 
pr Sa a numerote people; end he appointed teachers 
of the brethren of Amulon, in every lod which was pos- 
sessed by his people;,and thus the language of Nephi bes 
poe be taught among all the people of the Larmanités, 
they were a people ftivbdly one with another; nét: 


i 


-py r- ron — 


BOOK OF MOMAN. 261 


‘ertheless they knew not God; neither did the brethren of . 
Amulon teach them any thing concerning the Lord their 
God, neither'the law of Moses; nor did they teach them 
the words of Abinadi; but they taught them that they 
should keep their record, and that they might write one to 
another. And thus the Lamanites began’ to increase in 
riches, and‘began to trade one with another, and wax great, 
and began to be a cunning and a wise people, as to the 
wisdom of the world; yea, a very cunning people; delight- 
ing in all manner of wickedness and lander except it 
were among their own brethren. ` f i 

-And now. it came to pass that Amuion began to exercise ` 
authority over Alma and his brethren, and began to perso- 
cute him, and cause that his ehildren should persecute 
their children: for Amulon knew Alma, that he had been 
one of the king’s priests, and that it was he that believed 
the words of Abinadi, and was driven out before the king; 
and therefore he was wroth with him, for he was subject 
. toking Laman; yet he exercised authority over them, and 
. put tasks upon them, and put task-masters over them. 
And it came to pass that eo great were their afflictions, that 
they began to cry mightily to. God. And Amulon com- 
manded them that they should stop their cries; and he put 

ards over them to watch them, that whosoever should be 

aad calling upon God, should be put to death. And Alma 
and his people did not raise their voices to the Lord their 
God, bat did pour out their hearts tohim; and he did know. 
the thoughts of their hearts. 

And it came to pass thet the voice of the Lord came to 
thom in their afflictions, saying, lift up your heads and be of 
good comfort, for I know of the covenent which ye have 
made untome; and I will covenant with my people, and de- 
liver them outof bondage. And I will also ease the burdens 
which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot 
feel them upon your — even while you are in bondage; 
and this will I do, that ye may stand as witnesses for me 
hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that I, the 
Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions. And 
now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid npon 
Alma and his brethren, were made light; yea, the Lord 
did strengthen them that they could bear up their bur- 
dens with ease, and they dil submit cheerfully and with 
patience to all the will of the Lord. l 

And it eame to pass that sò great was their faith and 
their patience, that the voice of the Lord came untọ them 
again, saying, beof good comfort, for on the morrow I will 
deliver you out of bondage. And he said unto Alma, thou 


«ate BOOK OF MOSILH. 


shalt go before this people, and I will go with thee, and 
' deliver this people out of bondage. i 

Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in the 
night time, gathered their flocks together, and also of their 
grain; yea, even all the night time were they gathering 
stheir flocks together. And in the morning the Lord caus 

ed a deep sleep to come upon the Lamanites, *yea and all 

„their task-masters were in a profound sleep. And Alma 
and his people departed into the wilderness; and when 
they had traveled all day, they pitched their tents in a val- 
ley, and they called the valley Alma, because he led their 
.way in the wilderness; yea, and in the valley of Alma they 
_ poured out their thanks to God because he had been mer 
ciful unto them, and eased their burdens, and had delivered 
them out of bondage; for they were in bondage, and none 
` could deliver them, except it were the Lord their God. 
_ And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their men,-and all 
` gheir women, and all their children, that could speak, lift- 
. ed their voices in the praises of their God. 

And now the Lord said unto Alma, haste thee and get 
thou and this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have 
awoke and do pursue thee; therefore get.thee out of this 
land, and I will stop.the Lamanites in this valley, that they 
come no further in pursuit of this people. And it came te 
pass.that they.departed out of the valley, and took their 
journey into the wilderness. And after they had been in 
the wilderness twelve days, they arrived to the land of 
Zarahemla; and king Mosiah did also. receive them with 
joy. And now king Mosiah caused that all the people 
should be gathered together. Now there were not so 
of the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were 
descendants of Nephi, as there were af the people of Zara- 
hemla, who was.a descendant of Mulok, and those who 
came with him into the wilderness; and there were not ee 
many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zare- 
hemla as there were of the Lamanites: yen, they were not 
half so numerous. And now all the people of Nephi were 
assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, 
and they were gathered together in two bodies. 

And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and -caused 
to be read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he 
read the records of the peoplewf Zeniff, from the time they 
left the land of Zarahemla until they returned again. 
And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, 
and all their afflictions, from the time they left the land of 
Zarahemla, until the time they returned again. And now 
when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, bis 


poo OF NOSIA. aig: 


people wha tewied in the land were strack with wunder and 
amazement, for they knew not what to think; for when 
they beheld those that had been delivered out of bondage, 
they were filled with exceeding great poy nd again, 
when they thought of their brethren who had been slain 
by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow, and 
even shed many tears of sorrow, and again, when they 
thought of the immediate goodness of God, and his power 
in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the hands of 
tlie Lamanites, and of bondage, they did raise their voices, 
and give thanks toGod. And again, when they thought 
upon the Lamanites, who were their brethren, of their sinful 
and polluted state, they were filled with pain and anguish, 
for the welfare of their souls. ° 
And it came to pase that those who were the children 
of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the 
daughters of the Lamanites, were displeased with the 
conduct of their fathers, and they would no longer be call- 
ed by the names of their fathers, therefore they took upon 
themselves the name of Nephi, that they might be called 
the childten of Nephi, and be numbered among those who 
were called Nephites. And now all the people of Zara- 
hemla were numbered with’ the Nephites, and this because 
the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who 
were descendants of Nephi. l 
And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made. 
am end of speaking and reading to the peaple, he desired 
that Alma should aleo speak to the people. And Alma 
did speak unto them, when they were assembled together. 
in large bodies, and he went from one body to another. 
reaching unto the people repentance and faith on the 
rd. And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his breth- 
ren, all those that had been delivered out of bondage, that 
they should remember that it‘was the Lord that did deliv- 
er‘them. And it came to passthat after Alma had taught 
the people many things, and had made an end of speak- 
ing to them, that king Limhi was desirous that he might 
be baptized; and all his people were desirous that they 
might be baptized also. erefore Alma did go forth inte 
the water, and did baptize them; yea, he did baptize them 
after the:manner he did his brethren in the waters of Mor- 
mon; yea, and as many as he did baptize-did belong to the: 
church of God; and this because of their belief on the 
words of Alma. 
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Almay . 
thet ho might establish churches throughout ali the land 
of Zarahemia; and gave kim power-to-ordain priests- and. 


he BOOK OF MOSIAH. 


shalt go before this people, and I will go with thee, and 
` deliver this people out of bondage. ' 

Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in the 
night time, gathered their flocks together, and also of their 
grain; yea, even all the night time were they gathering 
.their flocks together. And in the morning the Lord caus- 
ed a deep sleep to come upon the Lamanites, *yes and all 
their task-masters were in a profound sleep. And Alma 
and his people departed into the wilderness; and when 
they had traveled all day, they pitched their tents in a val- 
ley, and they called the valley Alma, because he led their 
way in the wilderness; yea, and in the valley of Alma they 
poured out their thanks to God because he had been mer 
ciful unto them, and eased their burdens, and hed delivered 
them out of bondage; for they were in bondage, and none 
. could deliver them, except it were the Lord their God. 
And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their men,.and all 
their women, and all their children, that could speak, lift- 
. ed their voices in the praises of their God. 

And now the Lord said unto Alma, haste thee and get 
thou and this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have 
awoke and do pursue thee; therefore get.thee out of this 
land, and I will stop.the Lamanites in this valley, that they 
come no further in pursuit of this people. And it came to 
pass that they departed out of the valley, and took their 
journey into the wilderness. And after they had been in 
the wildersels twelve days, they arrived to the land of 
Zarahemla; and king Mosiah did also receive them with 
joy. And now king Mosiah caused that all the people 
should be gathered together. Now there were not so many 
of the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were 
descendants of Nephi, as there were af the people of Zara- 
hemla, who was a descendant of Mulok, and those who 
came with him into the wilderness; and there were not so 
many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zara- 
hemla as there were of the Lamanites: yea, they were not 
half so numerous. And now all the people of Nephi were 
assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, 
and they were gathered together in two bodies. | 

And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused 
to be read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he 
read the records of the peoplewf Zeniff, from the time they 
left the land of Zarahemla until they returned again. 
And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, 
and all their afflictions, from the time-they left the land of 
Zarahemla, until the time they returned again. And now 
when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, his 


oon OF MOSAB.” ay: 


people wha tarried in the land were struck with wonder and 
amazement, for they knew not what to think; for when 
they beheld those that had been delivered out of bondage, 
they were filled with exceeding great poy. nd again, 
when they thought of their brethren who had been ‘slain 
by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow, and. 
even shed many tears of sorrow, and again, when they 
thought of the immediate goodness of God, and his power 
in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the hands of 
tlie Lamanites, and of bondage, they did raise their voices, 
and give thanks toGod. And again, when they thought 
upon the Lamanites, who were their brethren, of their sinful 
and polluted state, they were filled with pain and anguiah, 
for the welfare of their souls. : 

And it came to pass that those who were the children 
of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the 
daughters of the Lamanites, were displeased with the 
conduct of their fathers, and they would no longer be call- 
ed by the names of their fathers, therefore hey took upon 
themselves the name of Nephi, that they might be called 
the children of Nephi, and be numbered among those who 
were called Nephites. And now all the people of Zara- 
hemia were numbered with’the Nephites, and this because 
the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who 
were descendants of Nephi. 

And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made. 
an end of speaking and reading to the peaple, he desired 
that Alma should also speak to the people. And Alma 
did speak unto them, when they were assembled together. 
in large bodies, and he went from one body to another 
preening unto the people repentance and faith on the 

. And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his breth- 
ren,all those that had been delivered out of bondage, that 
they should remember that it-was the Lord that did deliv- 
erthem. And it came to pass that after Alma had taught 
the people many things, and had mede an end of speak- 
ing to them, that king Limhi was desirous that he might 
be baptized; and all his:people were desirous that they 
might be baptized also. Therefore Alma did go forth into 
the water, and did baptize them; yea, he did baptize them 
after the-manner he did his brethren in the waters of More. 
mon; yea, and as many as he did baptize did belong to the 
church of God; and this because of their belief on the 
Words of ‘Alma. . 

And it came to passthat king Mosiah granted unto Almay. 
thet ho might establish churches throughout ali the land 
ofZarxahemia; and gave him power to-ordain priests- and. 


BOK OF MOSIAH. . 


teachers over every church. Now this was done because 
there were so many people that ey could not all be gov- 
erned by one teacher; neither could they all hear the word 
of God in one assembly; therefore they did assemble them- 
selves together in different bodies, being called churches; 
every charch having their priests and their teachers, an 
every priest preaching the word according as it was deliv. 
ered to him by the mouth of Alma; and thus, notwith- 
standing there being many churches, they were all one 
church; yea, even the church of God: far there was noth- 
ing preached iin all the churches except it were repentance 
and faith in God. And now there were seven churches in 
the land of Zarahemla. Aud it came pass that whosoever 
were desirous to take upon them the name of Christ, or of 
God, they did join-the churches of, God: and they were 
called the people af God. And the Lord did pour out his 
spi apon them, and they were blessed, and prospered in 

e land. ' i 

Now it came to pass that there were many of the rising 

eneration that could not understand the words of king 

enjamin, being little children at the time he spake unto 
his people: and they did not believe the tradition oftheir 
fathers. They did not believe what had been said con- 
- cerning the resurrection of the déad; neither did they be 
lieve concerning the coming of Christ. And now because 
of their unbelief, they could not understand the word of 
God; and their heatts were hardened. And they would 
not be baptized; neither would they join the church. And 
they were a separate people as to their faith, and remained 
eo ever after, even in their carnal and sinful state; for they 
would not call upon the Lord theirGod. And now in the, 
teign of Mosiah, they were not half sb numerous as the 
people of God; but because of the dissensions among the 

rethren, they became more numerous. For it came to 
pass that they did deceive many with their flattering words 
who were in the church, and did cause them to commit 
many sins; therefore it became expedient that those who 
committed sin that were in the church, should be admor 
ished by the church. : 

And it .came to pass that they were brought before 
the priests, and delivered up unto the priests by the 
teachers; and the priests brought them before Alma, who 
was the high priest. Now king Mosiah had given Alma 
the authority over the church. And it came to pass that 
Alma did not know concerning them, for there were many 
Witneases against them; yea, the people stood and testified 
of their iniquity in abundance. Now there had not any | 

| 





BOK OF MOSIAH:: 208 


gach thing happenod before, in the churth; therefdre At- 
ma was troubled in. his spirit, and he caused that they 
should be brought before the king. And he said unto the 
king, behold, here are many whom we have brought bee 
fore thee, who are accused of their brethren; ‘yea, and 
they have been ‘taken in divers iniquities, And they do 
not tepent of their iniquities; therefore we have brought 
them'before thee, thet thou mayest judge them accordin 
totheircrimes. But king Mosiah said unto Alma, behold, 
I judge them not; therefore I deliver them into thy hands 
to be judged. And now the spirit of Alma was again 
troubled; and he went and inquired of the Lord what he 
shoulé do concerning this matter, for he feared-that he 
should do wrong in the sight of God. 

- And it came to: pass that after he had poured out his 
whole soul to God, the voice of the Lord came to him, 
mying, blessed art thou, Alma, apd blessed are they who 
were baptized in the watersof Mormon. Thouart blessed 
because of thy exceeding faith in the words alone of my 
servant, Abinadi. And blessed are they because of their 
exceeding faith in the words alone which thou hast spoken 
unto them. And blessed art thou beeause thou hast es- 
tablished a church among this people; and they shall be 
eatablished, and they shall be my people. Yea, blessed 
is this pedple, who are willing to bear my name; for in 
my name shall they be called; and they are mine. And 
because thou hast enquired of me concerning the trane- 
gtessor, thou art blessed. Thou att my servant: and I co~ 
venant with thee, that thou shalt have eternal life; and 
thou shalt serve. me, and go forth in myname, and shall 
ae together my sheep. And he that will hear my voice, 

all be my sheep; and him shalt ye receive into ‘the 
church ; and him will I also receive. For behold, this is 
my church; whosoever is baptized, shall be baptized unto 
Yepentance. And whosoever ye recéive, shall believe in 
my name; and him. will I freely forgive: for it is I that 
_teketh upon me the sins of the world; for it is I that hath 
created kom: and it is I that granteth unto him that be- 
lieveth unto the end, a place at my right hand. For behold, - 
in my name are they called; and if they know me, they 
shall come forth, and shall have a place eternally at my 
tight hand. Andit shall come to that when the'second 
trump shall sound, then shall they that never knew me 
tome forth, and shall stand before me; and then shall they 
know thatI am the Lord their God, that I am their Re- 
deemer;. but they would not oe redeemed. And then will 

i 1 


Ras ROOK QP. MOSKAM. 


J confess: unto them, thet I never knew them; and they 
shall depart into.everlasting fire, prepared for the devil aud 
his angels. Therefore I say unto you, that he that will 
not hear my voice, the same shall ye not receive into my 
ghurch, for him wall I not receive at the: last day; there 
fore-I aay unto yeu, go; and whosoever transgresseth 

against me, him shall ye judge according’ to the sins 
` which he.has committed; and if he confess his.sins before 
thee and me, and repenteth in the sincerity of his heart, 
him shall ye forgive, and I will forgive him also; yea,and 
as often as my people repent, will I — thet their 
trespasaes against me.. And ye shall also forgive one ano- 
ther your trespasses: for-verily I say unto you, he that for- 
giveth not his neighbor’s trespasses, when he ‘that says he 
repents, the samehath brought himself under condemna- 
tion. Now I say unto you, go; and whosoever will not re- 
pent of his gins, the same shall not be numbered among my 
people: and this shall be observed from this time forward. 

And it came to pass when Alma had heard these words. 
he wrote them down, that he might havo them, and thet 
he might judge the people of that church, according to 
the commandments of God. I 

And it came to pass that Alma went and judged those 
that had been taken in iniquity, according to the word of 
the Lord. And whosoever repented of their sins and did 
confess them, them he did number among the people of 
the chureh; and those that would not confess their: sins 
and repent of their ae ae mhe same were not numbered 
among the people of the chureh, and their names were 
blotted out. And it came to pass that Alma did regulate 
oll the affairs of the church; and they began again to have 
peace and to prosper exceedingly in the effairs of the church; 
walking circumspectly before God; receiving many, and 
baptizing many. And now ali these things did Alma and 
his fellow-laborers do, who were over the church; walk- 
ing in all diligence; teaching the word of'God in all things, 
suffering all. manner oftafflictions; being persecuted by all. 
those who did not belong to the churchof God. . And they 
did admonish their brethren; and they ‘were also admon- 
ished, every one, by the word of God, according to his sins, 
or to the sins which he had committed; being commanded 
of God to pray without ceasing, and to give thanks in all 
things. And.now it.came to pass thatthe persecutions which 
were inflicted on the church by the unbelievers, became s0 
greet, that the church began to murmur, and complain to 
their leaders concerning2he matter; and they did complain 


Soox OF MOSiR; oot 


tò Alma. And Alma laid the case before their king Mo- 
siah, And Mosiah consulted with his priests. 

And it came to pass that king Mosiah sent a proclama- 
tion throughout the land round about,:that there should 
not any unbeliever persecute any of those who belonged 
to the ehureh of God: and there was a strict command - 
threaghout all the churches, that there should.be no per 
secutions among them; that there should be an equality 
among all men; that they should let no pride nor haughti- 
hess disturb their peace; that every man should esteem hia 
neighbor as himself, laboring with their own hands for their. 
support; yea, and all their priests and teachers should la- 
bor with their own hands for their support, inall cases save it 
were in sieknegs, or in much want< and doing these things, 
they did abound in the grace of God. And there began 
to be much peace again in the land; andthe people began 
to be very numerous, and began to scatter abroad upon the 
face of te earth} yea, on the north and on the south, omw 
the east and on the west, building large cities and villages 
in ali quartergof the land. And the Lord did visit them, and 
prosper them, and they became a large and wealthy people. 

Now the sons of Mosiah were numbered among the un- 
believers; and also one of the sons of Alma was numbered’ 
among them, he being called Alma, after his father; nev- 
ertheless he became a very wicked and an idolatrous man. 
And he was a man of many words, and did speak much 
flattery to the people: therefore he led many of the people 
todo after the manner of his iniquities. And he became 
& great hinderment to the prosperity of the church of God; 
sealing away the hearts of the people; causing much dib- 
ænsion among the people; giving a chance for the enemy 
of God to exercise his power over them. : - 

And now it came to pasè that while he was going about 
to destroy the church of God: for he did go about secret 
with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church, 
and to lead astray the people of the Lord, contrery to the 
commandments of God, or even the king; and as I said 
unto you, as they were going about rebelling against God, 
behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto thent; and he 
descended as it were in a cloud; and he spake as it werd 
with a voice of thunder, which caused the earth to shake 
won which they stood; and so great-was their astonish- 
ment, that they fell to the earth, and understodd not the 
words which he spake unto them. Nevertheless he eried 
tgain, saying, Alma, arise, and stand forth, for why perse- 
teth thou the church of God? For the Lord hath said, 
This is my echureh, and I will establiah it; and nothing 


268. BOOK -QF MOSLAH, 


ghall overthrow it, save itis the tranagression of 
le. And again, the angel said behold, the Lord Lath 
heard the prayers of his servant Alma, who is thy father: 
for he has prayed with much faith concerning thee, that 
thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth; 
therefore for this purpose haye J come to convince. thee of 
‘the power and authority of God, that the prayérs of his ser- 
vants might be answered according to their faith. And 
now behold, can: ye dispute the power of God? For be- 
hold, doth not my voice shake the eayth? And can ye not 
also behold me before you? And I am sent from God. 
Now I say unto thee, go, and remember the captivity of 
thy fathers in the land of Helam, and in the land of Nephi; 
and remember how great things he has dene for them: for 
they were in bondage, and. he has delivered them. And 
mow I say unto thee, Alma, go thy way, and seek to de- 
stroy the church no -more, that their prayers may be an- 
awered; and this even if thou wilt of thyself be cast off. 
And now it came to pass that these were the last words 
which the angel spake unto Alma, ‘and he departed. And 
now Alma, and those that were with him, fell-again to the 
earth, for great was their astonishment; for with their own 
eyes they had beheld an angel of the Lord; and his voice 
was as thunder, which shook the earth; and they knew 
that there was nothing save the power of God, that could 
shake the earth and cause it to tremble, as though it would 
part asunder. And now the astonishment of Alma was so 
great, that he became dumb, that he could not open his 
mouth; yea, and he became weak, even that he could not 
‘ move his hands; therefore he was taken by those that were 
with him, and carried helpless, even until he was laid boe 
fore his father.: And they rehearsed unto his father all 
that had happened unto them; and his father rejoiced, for 
he knew that it was the power of God. And he caused 
tlfat a multitude should be gathered together, that the 
might witness what the Lord had done for his son, and al- 
eo for those that were with him. And he caused that the 
priests should assemble themselves together; and they be- 
gan to fast, and to pray to the Lord their God, that he 
would open the mouth of Alma, that he might speak ; ‘and 
also that his limbs might receive their strength, that the 
eyes of the people might be opened to see and’ know of the 
goodness and glory of God. . — 
And it came pass after they had fasted and prayed for 
‘the space of two days and two nights, the limbs of Alma 
received their etrength, and he stood up and began to speak 
anto them, bidding them to be of good comfort; for, said 


# 








‘Book OF MOSTAR. aa 


ks, I have repented of my sins, and have been rédeéined: 
of the Lord; behold, I am born of the spirit. And the 
Lord said unto me, marvel not that all mankind, yéa, men, 
and women, ‘all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, 
must be born again: yea, born of God, changed from their 
carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, bein 
redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters; an 
thus they become new creatures; and unless they do this, 
they can in no wise inherit the kingdom.of God. I aay uns 
to you, unless this be the case, they must be cast off; and 
this I know, because I was like to be cast off. Neverthe- 
less, after wandering through much tribulation, repentin 
tigh unto death, the Lord in mercy hath seen fit to snatch 
me out of an everlasting burning, and I am born of God: 
my soul hath been redeemed from the gall of bitterness and 
bonds of iniquity. I was in the darkest abyss; but now I 
behold the marvelouslight of God. My soul was wrecked 
with eternal torment; but I m snatched, and my soul ig 
pained no more. I rejected my Redeemer, and denied that 
which had beeh spoken of by our fathers; but‘own that 
they may foresee and that he will come, and that he re 
membereth every creature of his creating, he will make 
himself manifest unto all; yea, evety knee shall bow, and 
every tongue confess before him. Yeh, even at the last 
day, ‘when all men shall stand to be judged of him, then 
shall they confess that he is God; then shall they confess, 
who live without God in the world, that the judgment of 
everlassing punishment is just upon them; and they 
shall quake, and tremble, and shrink beneath the glance 
of his all-seatching eye. —— noo p 
And now it came to pass thet Alma began from this time 
forward, to teach the people, and those who Were with Al- 
ma at the time the angel appeared unto them: travelling 
round about through all the land, publisting to all the peo- 
ple the things which they had heard and seen, and pteach- 
ing the word of Godin much tributation, being greatly: 
persecuted by those who were unbelievers, being smitten 
by many of them; but hotwithstanding all this, they did 
impart much consolation to the chirch, confirming their 
faith, and exhorting them with long suffering ‘and much 
travail, to keep the commandments of God. Ant four of 
thenh were the soris of Moriah; ahd their names weté At- 
mon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni; these weré thd 
names of the sons of Mosiah. And they ttavelled through- 
out all the land of Zarahemla, and among all the peoptë 
who werte under the reign of aiig Mosiah, zealously stiiv- 
: F 1 a 


{ G } 


216 BOOK OF MOSIAN. 


ing to repair all the injtries which they had done to the 
church: confessing. all their sins, and publishing all the 
things which they had seen, and explaining the prophecies 
and the scriptures to all who desired to hear them; and thus 
they were. instruments in the hands of God, in bringiag 
many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, to the knowledgs 
of their Redeemer. ` And how blessed are they! For the 

did publish peace; they did publish good tidings of good; 
and they did declere unto the people that the Lord rejgneth. 


4 8 
è — > Grey 


CHAPTER XII. 


' Now it came to pass that after the sons of Mosiah had 
done all these things, they tock a small number with them, 
and returned to their father, the king, and desired of him 
thet he would arent unto them, that they might, with these 
whom they had selected, go up to the land of Nephi, that 
they might preach the things which they had heard, end 
that they might impart the word of God to their brethren, 
the Lamanites, thet perhaps they might Bring them to the 
knowledge of the Lord their God, and convince them of 
the iniquity of their fathers; and that perhaps they might 
cure them of their hatred towards the Nephites, that they 
might also be brought to rejoice in the Lord their God, that 
they might Become friendly to one ahother, and that there 
should be no more contentions in all the land-which the 
Lord their God had giventhem. Now they were desirous 
that salvation should be deelared to every creature, for they 
could not bear that any human soul should perish; yea, 
even the very thoughts that any soul should endure end- 
less torment, did cause them to quake and tremble. And 
thus did the spirit of the Lord work upon them, for.they 
were the very vilest of sinners. And the Lord saw fit in 
his infinite mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered 
much anguish of soul, because of their iniquities; and auf 
fering much, fearing that they should'be cast off forever 

And it came to paes that they did plead with their father 
many days, that they might go up to the land of Nephi. 
And king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord, if he 
would let his sons go up among theLamanites to preach 
the word. And the Lord said unto Mosiah, let them go up, 
for many shall believe on their words, and they shall have, 
eternal life; and I will deliver thy sons out of the hands 
of the Lamanites. 


BOOK QF MOSIAR, an 


, And it-came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might 
ge, and do according to their request; and they took their 
journey into the wilderness, to go up to preach the word 
among the Lamanites, and I shall give an account of their 
proceedings hereafter. Now king Mosiah had no one to 
confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons 
whe would accept of the kingdom; therefore he took the 
records which were engraven on the plates of brass, and 
also the pisses of Nephi, and sll the things which he had 
kept and: preserved, acgording to the commandments of 
God, after having translated and caused to be written the 
records which were on the plates of gold, which had been 
found by the people of Limhi, which were delivered to him 
by the hand of Limhi; and this he did, because of the great 
anxiety of his people, for they were desirous beyond mea- 
sure, to know concerning those Pope who had been de- 
stroyed. And now he translated them by the means of 
those two stones which were fastened into the two rims of 
a bow. Now these things were. prepared from the begin- 
ning, and were handed down ffrom generation to genera- 
tion, for the purpose of interpreting languages; and the 
have been kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, 
that-he should discover to every creature who should pos- 
sess the land, the iniquities and abominations of his people; 
and whosoever has these things, is called seer,, after the 
manner of old times. 
Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records, 
behold, it gave an account of the people who were destroy- 
ed, from the time that they were destroyed, back to the 
building of the great tower, at the time the Lord confound- 
the language of the people; and they were scattered 
broad upon the face of all the earth, yea, and even from 
that time until the creation of Adam. Now this account 
did cause the people of Mosish to mourn exceedingly; 
yea, they were filled with sorrow; nevertheless it gave 
them much knowledge, in the whieh they did rejoice. And 
this account shall be written’ hereafter; for behold, it is 
expedient that all people should know the things which 
are written in this account. 


—æ 


CHAPTER XIII. 


- Anp now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had 
done these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the 


dit Boek OF kostn, 


things which he had-kept, and conferred them upoh Muta, 
who was the son of Alma; yea, all the records, and also 
the interpreters, and conferred them upon him, and com- 
manded him that he shoutd keep and preserve them, and also 
keep a record of the peepte, handing them down from one 
generation to another, even as they had been handed down 
rom the time that Lehi léft Jerusalem. Now when Mosiah 
had done this, he sent out throughout all the land, among 
all the people, desiring to know their will concerning who 
should be their king. And'it came to pass that the voice 
of the people came, saying, we are desirous that Aaron, 
thy son, should be our king, and our ruler. Now Aaron 
had gone up to the land of Nephi, therefore the king could 
not confer the kingdom upon him: neither would Aaron 
take upon him the kingdom; neither were eny of the sous’ 
of Mosiah willing to take upon them the kingdom, there- 
fore king Mosiah sent again among the people, yea, evens 
written word sent he among the people. : And these were 
the words that were written; saying: ‘Behold, O ye my 
people, or my brethren, for I esteem you as such, for I de 
sire that ye should consider the cause which ye are éalled 
to consider; for ye are desirous to have a king. Now I dé- 
clare unto you, that he to whom the’ kngdom doth rightly 
belong, has declined, and will not take upon him the king- 
dom. And now if there should be another appointed in 
his stead, behold I fear there would rise contentions among 
ou; and ‘who knoweth but what my son, to whom the 
ingdom doth belong, should turn to be angry, and draw 
away a part of this people aftet him, which would cause 
Wars and contentions among you; which would be the 
cause-of shedding much blood, and perverting tHe way af 
the Lord; yea, and destroy the souls of many people. Now 
E say unto you, let us be wise and consider these thing®, 
for we have no right to destroy my son, neither should we 
have any right to destroy * if he should be appoints 
ed in his stead. And if my son should tum again to his 
paee and vain things, he would recall the things ‘which he 
ad said, and claim his right to the kingdom, which would 
cause him and also this people to commit much sin. And 
now let us be wise and look forward to these things, and 
do that which will make for the peace of this people. 
Therefore I will be your king the remainder of my days; 
nevertheless, let us appoint judges, to judge this people 
according to our law, and we will newly arrange the affairs 
of this people, for we will appoint wise men to be judges, 
that will judge this people according to the commandments 
df God.. ‘Now it is better that a mat slioatd bë judged of 


. 


God. than of man, for the judgments of God are always juat, 
but the judgments of man.are not always just; therefore, 
if it were possible that ye could have just men to be your 
kings, who would establish the laws of God, and judge this 
poorle aceording to his commandments; yea, if ye could 
ave men for your kings, who would do even as my father 
Benjamin did for this people, Į say unto you, if this could 
always be the case, then it would be expedient that ye 
shauld always have kinge to rule over you. And even J 
myself have labored with all the power of faculties which 
I have possessed, to teach you the commandments of God, 
and to establish peace throughout the land, that thereshould 
be no wars nor contentions, no stealing, nor plondering, 
nor murdering, nor any manner of iniquity; and whosoeveg 
has committed iniquity, him have I punished according to 
the law which has been given to us by our fathers. 

Now I say unto yon, that because all men are not just, 
it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings 
to rule over you. For behold, how much iniqity doth one 
wicked king cause to be committed! yea, and what great 
destruction! Yea, remember king Noah, his wickedness 
and his abominations; and also the wickedness and abomi- 
nations of his people. Behold what great destruction did 
come upon them; and also because of their iniquities, they 
were —— into bondage. And were it not for the inter 
position of their all-wise Creator, and this because of their 
sincere repentance, oe must unavoidably remained in 
bondage until now. But behold, he did deliver them 
because they did humble themselves before him; and be- 
cause they cried mightily unto him, he did deliver then 
out of bondage; and thus doth the Lord work with hia 
power in all cases among the children of men, extending 
the arm of mercy towards themi that put their trust in him, 
And behold, now I say. unto you, ye cannot dethrone an 
iniquitous king, save it be through much contention, and 
the shedding of much blood. For behold, he has his friends 
in iniquity, and he keepeth his guards about him; and he 
teareth up the laws of those who have reigned in night 
eousnesg before him; and he trampleth under his feet the 
commandments of God: and ho enacteth laws, and sends 
eth them forth among his people; yea, laws after the mane 
ner of his own wickedness; and whosoever doth not obe 
his laws, he causeth to be destroyed; and whosoever dot 
rebel against him, he will send his armies against them te 
war, and if he can, he will destroy them; and thus an une 
righteous king doth pervert the ways of all righteousness, 
And now behold I say unto you, it is not expedient thag 


tia BOOK: OF MOSTAR. 


gach abominations should come upon you; therefore ehoced 
u by the voice of this people, judges, that ye may be 
judge aecording to the laws which have been given you 
yy our fathers, which are correct, and which were given 
them by the hand of the Lord. Now it is not common that 
the voice of the people desireth any thing contrary to that 
which is right; but it is common for the lesser part of the 
people to desire that which is not right; therefore this shall 
e observe, and make it your law to do your business by 
the voice of the people. And if the time comes that the 
voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time 
that the judgments of God will come upon you; yea, then 
is the time he will visit you with great destruction, even 
as he has hitherto visited this land. And mow if ye have 
judges, and they do not judge you according to the law 
which has been given, ye can cause that they may be 
judged of a higher judge; if your higher judges do not 
Judge righteous judgments, ye shall cause that a small 
number of your lower judges should be gathered together, 
and they shail judge your higher judges, according to tha 
voice of the people. And I command you to do these things 
in the fear of the Lord; and I command you to do these 
things, and that ye have no king: that if these people com- 
mit sins and iniquities, they shall be answered upon their 
cwn heads. For behold I say unto you, the sins-of meny 
people have been caused by the iniquities of their kings; 
therefore their iniquities are answered upon the heads of 
their kings. And now I desire that this inequality should 
be no more in this land, espeeially among this my peoples 
but I desire that this land be a land of liberty, and every 
man may enjoy his rights and privileges alike, so long as 
the Lord sees fit, that we may live and inherit the land; 
a, even as long as any of our posterity remains upon thé 
ce of theland. And many more things did king Mosiah 
write unto them, unfolding unto them all the trials and 
troubles of a righteous king; yea, all the travails of soul 
for their people, and also all the murmurings of the people 
to their king; and he explained it all unto them. And he 
told them that these things ought not to be; but that the 
burden should come upon all the peeple, that every man 
might bear his part.. And he also unfolded unto them alt 
the disadvantages they labored under, by having an un- 
righteous kingto rule over them; yea, all his iniquities and 
abominations, and all the wafs, and contentions, and blood- 
shed, and the stealing, and the plundering, and the com 
mitting of whoredema, and all manner of.iniquities, which 
Sannot be enumerated, telling them that these things ought 


ROOK OF mostam. SiS 


not to be; that — were expressly repugnant to the com- 
mandmients of God. l l 

And now it came to pass, after king Mosiah had sent 
these things forth among the people, they were convinced 
of the truth of his words; therefore they relinquished their 
desires for a king. and became — anxious that 
every man should have an equal chance throughout all the 
land; yea, and every man expressed a willingness to an- 
swer for his own sins. Therefore it came to pass that they 
assembled themselves together in bodies throughout the 
land, to cast in their voices concerning who should be their 
judges, to judge them according to the law which had been 
given them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because 
of the liberty which had been granted unta them. And 
they did wax strong in love towards Mosiah; yea, they did 
esteem him more than any other man: for they did not look 
upon him as a tyrant, who was seeking for gain, yea, for 
that lucre which doth corrupt the soul, for he had not ex- 
acted riches of them, neither had he delighted im the shed- 
ding of blood; but he had established peace in the land, 
and he had granted unto his people that they should be dee 
livered from all manner of bondage; therefore they did 
esteem him, yea, exceedingly, beyond measure. And it 
came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them, 
or to judge them according to the law; and this they did 
throughout all the land. 

And it came to * that Alma was appointed to be the 
first chief judge; he being also the high priest; his father 
having conferred the office upon him, and had given him 
the charge concerning all the affairs of the church. And 
now it came to pass that Alma-did walk in the ways ofthe 
Lord, and he did keep his commandments, and he did 
judge righteous judgments; and there was continual peace 
through the land; and thus commenced the reign of the 
judges throughout all the land of Zarahemle, among all the 

eople who were called the Nephites: and Alma was the 
fase and chief judge. And now it came to pass that his 
father died, being eighty and two years old, having lived 
to fulfil the. commandments of God. 

And it came to pase that Mosiah died also, in the thirty 
and. third year of his reign, being sixty and three years old; 
making in the whole, five hundred and pine years from 
the time Lehi left Jerusalem; and thus ended the reign of 
the kings over the people of Nephi; and thus ended the 
days of Alma, who was the founder of their church. 


gie noox OF ALMA. 
eet Ge Lissa 


THE BOOK OF ALMA, 
THE SON OF ALMA. _ 
CHAPTER I. 


The account of Alma, who was the son of Alma the first, 
and Chief Judge over the people of Nephi, and also the 
Priest over the Church. An account of the reign af 
Judges, and the wars and contentions among the people. 
And also an account of a war between the Nephites and the 
Lamanites, according to the record of Alma the first, and 
Chief Judge. | | 


Now it came to pass that in the first year of the riegn 
of the Judges over the people of Nephi, from this time for- 
ward, king Mosiah having gone the way of all the earth, 
— warred a good warfare, walking uprightly before 
God, — none to reign in hia stead; nevertheless be 
established laws, and they were acknowledged by the peo- 
ple; therefore they were obliged to abide by the laws 
which he had made. 

And it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of 
Alma in the judgment seat, there was a man brought be- 
fore him to be judged; a man who was large, and was 
noted for his much strength; and he had gone about among 
the people, preaching to them that which he termed to be he 
word of God, bearing down against the church; declaring 
unto the people that every priest and teacher ought to be- 
come popular; and they ought not to labor with their hands, 
but that they ought to be supported by the people; and 
he also testified unto'the people that all mankind should 
be saved at the last day, and that they need not fear nor 
tremble, but that they might lift up their heads and re- 
joice; for the Lord had created all men, and had also re- 
deemed all men; and in the end, all men should have eter- 
nal life. And it came to pass that he did teach these 
things eo much, that many did believe on his words, even 
so many that they began to support him and give him 
money; and he began to be lifted up in. the pride of his 
heart, and to wear very costly apparel; yea, and even began 
to establish a church, after the manner of his preaching. 

And it came to pass as he was going to preach to those 
who believed on his word, he met a man who belonged to 


gee — — 


BOOK OF ALMA. Sif 


the chureh of God, yea, even one of their teachers; sad he 
began to contend with him shaply, that he might lead 
away the people of the church: but the man withstvod 
him, admonishing him with the words of God. Now the 
name of the man was Gideon; and it was he who was an 
instrument in the hands of God, in delivering the people 
of Limhi out of bondage. Now because Gideon withstood 
him with the words of God, he was wroth with Gideon, 
and drew his sword and began to smite him. Now Gideon 
being stricken with many years therefore he was not able 
ta withstand his blows, therefore he was slain by the sword 3 
and the man who slew him was taken by the people of the 
church, and was brought before Alma, to be judged accor- 
ding to the crime which he had committed. And it came 
to = that he stood before Alma, and plead for himeelf 
with much boldness. But Alma said unto him, behold, 
this is the first time that priestoraft has been introduced: 
among this people. And behold, thou art not only guilty 
of priestcraft, but hast endeavored to enforce it by the 
sword; and were priestcraft to be enforced among thie peo- 
le, it would prove their entire destruction. And thou 
ast shed the blood of a righteous man, yea, a man who 
has done much good among this people; and were we to 
are thee, his blood would come upon us for vengeance}. 
therefore thou art condemned to die, according to the law 
which has been given us by Mosiah, our last king; and 
they have been acknowledged by this people; therefore 
thie people must abide by the law. - 

Aud it came to pass that they took him; and his name 
wes Nehor; and they carried him upon the top of the hill 
Manti, and there he was caused, or rather did acknowl- 
edge, between the heavens and the earth, that what he 
had taught to the people was contrary to the word of God; 
and there he suffered an ignominious death. Nevertheless 
this did not put an end to the spreading of priestcraft 
through the land: for there were many who loved the vain 
things of the world, and they went forth preaching false 
doctrines; and this they did for the sake of riches and 
honor. Nevertheless they durst not lie, if it were known, 
for fear of the law, for liars were punished; therefore they 
pretended to preach according to their belief: and now 
the law could have no power on any man for hig belief. 
And they durst not steal, for fear of the law; for such 
were punished; neither durst they rob, nor murder: for 
he that murdered was punished unto death. 

But it came to pass that —— did not belong to the 


$18 BOOK OF ALMA, 


church of God, began to persecute those that did belong 
to the church of God, and had taken upon them the name 
of Christ; yea, they did persecute them, and afflict them 
with all manner of words, and this because of their humil- 
ity; because they were not proud in their own eyes, and 
because they did impart the word of God, one with an 
other, without money and without price. Now there was 
a strict law among the people of the church, that there 
should not any man, belonging to the church, arise and 
persecute those that did not belong to the church, and that 
there should be no persecution among themselves. Nev- 
ertheless, there were many among them who began to be 
proud, and began to contend warmly with their adversa- 
ries, even unto blows; yea, they would smite one another 
with their fists. Now this was in the second year of the 
reign of Alma, and it was a cause of much affliction to the 
church; yea, it was the cause of much trial with the church; 
for the hearts of many were hardened, and their names 
were blotted out, that they were remembered no more 
among the people of God. And also many withdrew 
themselves from among them. Now this was a great trial 
to those that did stand fast in the faith; nevertheless, they 
were steadfast and immovable in keeping the command- 
ments of God, and they bore with patience the persecution 
which was heaped upon them. . And when the priests left 
their labor, to impart the word of God untothe people, the 
people also left their labors to hear the word of God. And 
when the priest had imparted unto them the word of God, 
they all returned again diligently unto their labors; and 
the priest, not esteeming himself above his heaters; for 
the preacher was no better than the hearer, neither was 
the teacher any better than the learner: and thus the 

were all equal, and they did all labor, every man accord- 
Ing to his strength; and they did impart of their substance 
every man according to that which he had, to the poor, 
and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they 
‘did not wear costly apparel, yet they were neat and come- 
ly; and thus they did establish the affairs of the church: 
and thus they began to have continual peace again, not- 
withstanding all their persecutions. And now because of 
the steadiness of the church, they began to be exceeding 
rich; having abundance of all things whatsoever they 
stood in nced; an abundance of flocks, and herds, and 
fatlings of every kind, and also abundance of grain, and of 
gold, and of silver, and of precious things; al abundance 
of silk and fine twined linen, and all manner of good home- 
ly cloth. And thusin their prosperous circumstances they 








BOOK OF ALMA; 219 


did not send away any who were naked, or that were hun- 
gry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not 
been nourished; and they did not set their hearts. upon 
riches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and 
young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether 
out of the church or inthe church, having no respect to 
persons as to those whostood in need; and thus they did 
prosper and become far more wealthy, than those who did 
not belong to their church. For those who did not belong 
to their church, did indulge themselves in sorceries, and in 
idolatry or idleness, and in bablings, and in envyings and 
strife; wearing costly apparel; being lifted up in the pride 
of their own eyes; lying, thieving, robbing, committing 
whoredoms, and murdering, and all manner of wicked- 
ness; nevertheless, the law was put in force uponall those 
who did transgress it, inasmuch as it were possible. 

And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law upon 
them, every man suffering according to that which he had 
done, they become more still, and durst not commit any 
wickedness, if it were known: therefore there was muc: 
peace among the people of Nephi, until the fifth year 
of the reign of the judges. And it came to puss in 
the commencement of the fifth year of their reign, there 
began to be a contention among the people, for a certain 
man, being called Amlici; he being a very cunning man, 
yea, a wise man, as to the wisdom of the world; he bein 
after the order of the man that slew Gideon by the sword, 
who was executed accerding to the law. Now this Amli- 
ci had, by his cunning, drawn away much people after 
him; even so much that they began to be very powerful; 
, and they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be a kin? 
over the people. Now this was alarming to the people ot 
the church, and also to all those who had not been drawn 
away after the persuasions of Amlici: for they knew that 
according to their law that such things must be established 
by the voice of the people; therefore, if it were possible 
that Amlici should gain the voice of the people, he being 
a wicked man, would deprive them of their rights and 
privileges of the church, &c; for it was his. intent to de- 
stroy the church of God. 

And it came to pass that the people assembled them- 
selves together throughout all the land, every man ac- 
cording to his mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, 
in separate bodies, having much dispute and wonderful 
contentions, one with another; and thus they did assemble 
themselves together, tó cast in their voices concerning the 
matter: and they were laid before the judges. And it 





218 BOOK OF ALNA. 


church of God, began to persecute those that did belong 
to the church of God, and had taken upon them the name 
of Christ; yea, they did persecute them, and afflict them 
with all manner of words, and this because of their humil- 
ity; because they were not proud in their own eyes, and 
because they did impart the word of .God, one with an- 
other, without money and without price. Now there was 
a strict law among the people of the church, that there 
should not any man, belonging to the church, arise and 
persecute those that did not belong to the church, and that 
there should be no persecution among themselves. Nev- 
ertheless, there were many among them who began to be 
proud, and began to contend warmly with their adversa- 
Ties, even unto blows; yea, they would smite one another 
with their fists. Now this was in the second year of the 
reign of Alma, and it was a cause of much affliction to the 
church; yea, it was the cause of much trial with the church; 
for the hearts of many were hardened, and their names 
were blotted out, that they were remembered no more 
among the people of God. And also many withdrew 
themselves from among them. Now this was a great trial 
to those that did stand fast in the faith; nevertheless, the 

were steadfast and immovable in keeping the command- 
ments of God, and they bore with patience the persecution 
which was heaped upon them. . And when the priests left 
their labor, to impart the word of God unto the people, the 
people also left their labors to hear the word of God. And 
when the priest had imparted unto them the word of God, 
they all returned again diligently unto their labors; and 
the priest, not esteeming himself above his hearers; for 
the preacher was no better than the hearer, neither was 
the teacher any better than the learner: and thus they 
were all equal, and they did all labor, every man accord- 
Ing to his strength; and they did impart of their substance 
every man according to that which he had, to the poor, 
and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they 
‘did not wear costly apparel, yet they were neat and come- 
ly; and thus they did establish the affairs of the church: 
and thus they began to have continual peace again, not- 
withstanding all their persecutions. And now because of 
the steadiness of the church, they began to be exceeding 
rich; having abundance of all things whatsoever they 
stood in nced; an abundance of flocks, and herds, and 
fatlings of every kind, and also abundance of grain, and of 
gold, and of silver, and of precious things; and abundance 
of silk and fine twined linen, and all manner of good home- 
ly cloth. And thus in their prosperous circumstances they 


BOOK OF ALMA) 219 


did not send away any who were naked, or that were hun- 
gry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not 
been nourished; and ‘they did not set their hearts upon 
niches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and 
young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether 
out of the church or inthe church, having no respect to 
persons as to those whostood in need; and thus they did 
prosper and become far more wealthy, than those who did 
not belong to their church. For those who did not belong 
to their church, did indulge themselves in sorceries, and in 
idolatry or idleness, and in bablings, and in envyings and 
strife; wearing costly apparel; being lifted up in the pride 
of their own eyes; lying, thieving, robbing, committing 
whoredoms, and murdering, and all manner of wicked- 
ness; nevertheless, the law was put in force upon all those 
who did transgress it, inasmuch as it were possible. 

And it came topass that by thus exercising the law upon 
them, every man suffering according to that which he had 
done, they become more still, and durst not commit any 
wickedness, if it were known: therefore there was muc: 
peace among the people of Nephi, until the fifth year 
of the reign of the judges. And it came to pass in 
the commencement of the fifth year of their reign, there 
began to be a contention among the people, for a certain 
man, being called Amlici; he being a very cunning man, 
yea, a wise man, as to the wisdom of the world; he bein 
after the order of the man that slew Gideon by the sword, 
who was executed according to the law. Now this Amli- 
ci had, by his cunning, drawn away much people after 
him; even so much that they began to be very powerful; 
. and they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be a kiny 
over the people. Now this was alarming to the people ot 
the church, and also to all those who had not been drawn 
away after the persuasions of Amlici: for they knew that 
according to their law that such things must be established 
by the voice of the people; therefore, if it were possible 
that Amlici should gain the voice of the people, he being 
a wicked man, would deprive them of their rights and 
privileges of the church, kes for it was his. intent to de- 
atroy the church of God. ; 

And it came to pass that the people assembled them- 
selves together throughout all the land, every man ac- 
cording to his mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, 
in separate bodies, having much dispute and wonderful 
contentions, one with another; and thus they did assemble 
themselves together, to cast in their voices concerning the 
matter: and they were laid before the judges. And it 


6 BOOK OF ALMA. 


esme to pass that the voice of the people came against Am» 
lici, that he was not made king over the people. Now this 
did cause much joy in the hearts of those who were against 
him; but Amlici did stir up those who were in his favor, te 
anger against those who were not in his favor. 

And it came to pass that they gathered themselves to- 
gether, and did consecrate Amiici to be their king. Now 
when Amlici was made king over them, he commanded 
them that they should take up arms against their brethren; 
and this he did, that he might subject them to him. Now 
the peop of Amlici were distinguished by the name of 
Amlici, being called Amlicites; and the remainder were 
called Nephites, or the people of God: therefore the peo- 
ple of the Nephites were aware of the intent of the Amli- 
cites, and therefore they did prepare to meet them; yea, 
they did arm themselves with swords, and with cimeters, 
and with bows, and with arrows, and with stones, and with 
— and with all manner of weapons of war, of every 
kind; and thus they were prepared to meet the Amlicites 
at the time of their coming. And there were appointed 
captains, and higher captains, and chief captains, accord- 
ing to their numbers. 

And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men with 
all manner of weapons of war, of every kind; and he also 
appointed rulers and leaders over his people, ‘to lead them 
to war against their brethren. And it came to pass that 
the Amlicites came upon the hill of Amnihu, which was 
east of the river Sidon, which ran by the land of Zarahem- 
Ja, and there they began to make war with the Nephites. 
Now Alma, being the chief judge, and the governor of 
the people of Nephi, therefore he went up with his people, 
yea, with his captains, and chief eaptains, yea, at the head 
of his armies, against tht Amlicites to battle; and they 
began to slay the Amlicites upon the hill east of Sidon. 
And the Amlicites did contend with the Nephites with 

reat strength, insomuch that many of the Nephites did 

ll before the Amlicites; nevertheless the Lord did 
strengthen the hand of the Nephites, that they slew the 
Amlicites with a great slaughter, that they began to flee 
before them. And it came to pasa that the Nephites did 
pursue the Amlicites all that day, and did slay them with 
much slaughter, insomuch that there was slain of the Am- 
licites twelve thousand five hundred thirty and two souls; 
and there was slain of the Nephites, six thousand five hun- 
dred sixty and two souls, 

And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue the 
Amlicites no longer, he cuused that his people should pitch 





BOOK OF ALMA. il 


their tents, in the valley of Gideon, the valley peng coli o 
after that Gideon who was slain by the hand of Nehor 
with the sword; and in this valley the Nephites did pitch 
their tents for the night. And Alina sent spies to follow 
the remnant of the Amlicites, that he might know of their 
plans and their plots, whereby he might guard himself 
against them, that he might preserve his people from be- 
ing destroyed. Now those whom he had sent out to watch 
the camp of the Amlicites, were called Zeram, and’ Am- 
nor, and Manti, and Limher; these were they who went 
out with their men to watch the camp of the Amiicites. ` 

And it came to pass that on the morrow they returned 
into the camp of the Nephites, in great haste, being greate 
ly astonished, and struck with much fear, saying, behold, 
we followed the camp of the Amlicites, and to our great 
astonishment, in the fand of Minon, above the land of Za- 
rahemla, in the course of the land, of Nephi; we saw a 
numerous host of the Lamanites; and behold, the Amli- 
cites have joined them, and they are upon our brethren in 
that land; and they are fleeing before them with their 
flocks, and their wives, and their children, towards our 
city; and except we make haste, they obtain possession of 
ourcity; and our fathers, and our wives, and our children 
be slain. oO 

And it came to pass that the people of Nephi took their 
tents, and departed out of the Ma of Gideon towards 
their city, which was the city of Zarahemla. And behold, 
as they were crossing the river Sidon, the Lamanites and 
the Amlicites, being as numerous almost, as it were, as the 
sands of the sea, came upon them to destroy them; never- 
theless the Nephites, being strengthened by the hand of 
the Lord, having prayed mightily to him that he would de- 
liver them out of the handa of their enemies; therefore 
the Lord did hear their cries, and did strengthen them, and 
the Lamanites and Amlicites did fall before them. And 
it came to pass that Alma fought with Amlici with the 
sword, face to face; and they did contend mightily, one 
with another. ) 

‘And it came to pass that Alma, being a man of God, be- 
ing exercised with much faith, cried saying, O Lord, have 
mercy and spare my life, that I may be an instrument in 
thy hands, ta save and preserve this people. Now when 
AJma had said these words, he contended again with Am- 
lici; and he was strengthened, insomuch that he slew 
Amlici with the sword. And he also contended with the 
king of the Lamanites: but the king of the Lamanites 
fied beck from before Alma, and sent his guards to con- 


on ‘OOK OF ALMA. 


tend with Alma. But Alma, with his guards, contended 
with the guards of the king of the Lamanites, until he 
slew and drove them back ; and thus he cleared the ground, 
or tather the bank, which was on the west of the river Si- 
-don, throwing the bodies of the Lamanites who hed been 
slain, into the waters of Sidon, that thereby his people 
might have room to cross and contend with the Lamanites 
and the Amlicites on the west side of the river Sidon. 
And it came to pass that when they had all crossed the 
river Sidon that the Lamanites and the Amlicites began to 
flee before them, notwithstanding they wete so numerous 
that they could not be numbered; and they fled before the 
Nephites, towards the wilderness which was west and 
‘north, away beyond thé borders of the land; and the Ne- 
phites did pursue them with their might, and did slay them; 
yea, they wete met on every hand, and slain, and driven, 
until they were scattered on the west, and on the north, un- 
til they had reached the’ wilderness, which was called 
Hermounts; and it was that part of the wilderness which 
was infested by wild and ravenous beasts. And it came 
to pass that many died in the wilderness of their wounds, 
and were devoured by those beasts, and also the vultures 
of the air; and their bones have been found, and hav 
been heaped up on the earth. i 
And it came to pass that the Nephites, who were not 
slain by the weapons of war, after having buried those 
who had been slain: Now the number of the slain were 
„nat numbered, because of the greatness of their number; 
after they had finished burying their dead, they all return- 
ed to their lands, and to their houses, and their wives, and 
their children. Now many women and children had been 
slain with the sword, and also many of their flocks 
and their herds; and also many of their fields of grain 
were destroyed, for they were trodden down by the hosts 
of men. And now as many of the Lamanites and the 
Anlicites who had been slain upon the bank of the river 
Sidon, were cast intd the waters of Sidon; and behold, 
their bones are in the dopths of the sea, and they are 
many. And the Amlicites were distinguished from ths 
Nephites; for they had marked themselves. with red in 
their foreheads, after the manner of the Lamanites; nev- 
ertheless they had not shorn their heads like unto the La- 
manites. Now the heads of the Lamanites were shorn; 
and they were naked, save it were skin, which was girded 
about their loins, and also their armour, which was girded 
„about them, and their bows, and their arrows, and their 
stones, and their slings, &c. And the skins of the La- 





BOOK OF ALMA. 293 


manites were dark, according to the mark which was set 
upon their fathers, which was a curse upon them because 
or their transgression and their rebellion against their 
brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and 
Sam, who were just and holy men. And their brethren 
sought to destroy them; therefore they were cursed; and 
the Lord God set a mark upon them, yea, upon Laman and 
Lemuel, and also the sons of Ishmael, and Ishmaelitish 
-women; and this was done, that their seed, might be dis- 
tinguished from the seed of their brethren, that thereby 
the Lord God might preserve his people, that they might 
not mix and believe in incorrect traditions which would 
‘prove their destruction. — 
And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed 
with that of the Lamanites, did bring the same curse upon 
his seed: therefore whosoever suffered himself to be led 
away by the Lamanites, was called under that head, and 
there was a mark set upon him, And it came to pags that 
whosoever would not believe in the tradition of the Laman- 
ites, but believed those records which were brought out of 
the land pf Jerusalem, and also in the tradition of their fath- 
ers, which were correct, who believed in the command- 
ments of God, and kept them, were called the Nephites, 
or the id of Nephi, from that time forth; and it is they 
who have kept the records which are true of their people, 
and also of the people of the Lamanites. Now we will 
return again to the Amlicites, for they also had a mark 
set upon them; yea, they set the mark upon themselves, 
yea, even a mark of red upon their foreheads. Thus the 
word of God is fulfilled, for these are the words which he 
raid to Nephi: Behold, the Lamanites have I cursed; and 
I will set a mark on them, that they and their seed may be 
separated from thee and thy seed, from this time henceforth 
and forever, except they repent of their wickedness and 
turn to me, that I may have mercy upon them. And 
again: I will set a mark upon -him that mingleth his seed 
with thy brethren, that they may be cursed also. And 
again: I will seta mark upon him that fighteth against 
thee and thy seed. And again I say,he that departeth 
from thee, shall no more be called thy seed; and I will 
bless thee, &c., and whosoever shall be called thy seed, 
henceforth and forever: and these were the promises of 
the Lord unto Nephi, and tohis seed. Now the Amlicites 
knew not that they were fulfilling the words of God, when 
they began to mark themselves in their foreheads; nevet- 
theless they had come out in open rebellion against Ged; 
therefore it was expedient that the curse should fall upon 


#94 POPE OF ALMA: 


them. Now I wauld that ye should gee that they brought 
upon themselves the curse; and even ‘so doth every man 
that is cursed, bring upon himself his own condemnation. 
Now it came to pass that not many days after the battle 
which was fought in the land of Zarahemla, by the La- 
manites and the Amlicites, that there was another army of 
the Lamanites came in upon the people of Nephi, in the 
same place, where the first army met the Amlicites. And 
it came to pass that there was an army sent to drive them out 
of their land. Now Alma himself being-afflicted with a 
wound, did not go up to battle at this time against the La- 
manites; but he sent up a numerous army against them; 
and they went up and slew many of the Lamanites, and 
drove the remainder of them out of the borders of their 
Jand; and then they returned again, and began to establish 
peace in the land, being troubled no'more for a time with 
their enemies. Now all these things were done, yea, all 
these wars and contentions were commenced and end- 
ed, in the fifth year of the reign of the Judges; and in 
one year were thousands and tens of thousands of. souls 
sent to the eternal world, that they might reap their re- 
wards according to their works, whether they were good 
or whether they were bad, to reap eternal happiness or 
eternal misery, according to the spirit which they listed to 
obey, whether it be a good spirit or a bad one; for eve 
man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey, an 
this according to the words of the oput of prophecy; 
therefore let it be according to the truth. And thus end- 
eth the fifth year of the reign of the Judges. 


—~2$O=— 
CHAPTER II. 


Now it came.to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the 
judges over the people of Nephi, there were no conten- 
tions nor wars in the land of Zarahemla; but the people 
were afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted for the loss of their 
brethren, and also for the. loss of their flocks and herds, 
and also for the loss of their fields of. grain, which were 
trodden under foot and destroyed by the Lamanites, and 
-80 great were their afflictions, that every soul had cause to 
:mourn; and they believed that it was the judgments of 
God sent upon them, because of their wickedness and 
‘their abominations; therefore they were awakened to a 
-temembrance of thejr duty. And they began to. egtab- 


t 





-BUOK OF ALICA. ak | 


lish the church’ more fally; yea, and many were baptized 
in the waters of Sidon, and were joined to the church of 
God; yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who 
had been consecrated the high priest over the people of 
the church, by the hand of his father Alma. 

And it came to pass in the seventh year of the reign of 
the judges, there were about three thousand five hundred 
souls that united themselves to the church of God, and 
were baptized. And thus endeth the seventh year of the 
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; and there 
was continual peace in all that time. 

And it eame to pass in the eighth year of the reign 
of the judges, that the peoplé of the church began 
to wax proud, because of their exeeeding riches, and 
their fine silks, and their fine twined linen, and because 
of their many flocks and herds, and their gold, end their 
silver, and all manner of precious things, which they had 
obtained by their industry: and in all these things were 
they lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for they began to 
wear very costly apparel. Now this was the cause of 
much affliction to Aima, yea, and to many of the people 
whom Alma hed consecrated to be teachers, and priests, 
and elders, over the church; yea, many of them were 
sorely grieved forthe wickedness which they saw had be- 
gunto be among their people. For they saw and beheld 
with great sorrow, that the people of the church began to 
be lifted up in the pride * their eyes, and to set their 
hearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the world; 
that they began to be scornful, one towards another, and 
they began to persecute those that did not bolieve accord- 
ing to their own will and pleasure. And thus in this 
eighth year of the reign of the judges, there began to be 
great contentions among the people of the chureh; yea, 
there were envyings, and strife, and malice, and persecu- 
tions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who 
did not belong to the church of God. And thus ended the 
eighth year of the reign of the judges; and the wicked- 
news of the church was a great stumbling block to those 
who did not belong to the church; and thus the church 
began to fail in its progress. 

And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth 
year, Alma saw the wickedness of the church, and he saw 
also that the example of the church began to lead those 
who were unbelievers, on from one piece of iniquity to 
another, thus bringing on the destruction of the people; 
yea, he saw great inequality among the people, some lift- 
ing themselves up with their pride, despising others, turne 


226 BOOK OF ALMA. 


ing their backs upon the needy, and the naked, and those 
‘who were hungry, and those who were athirst, and those 
who were sick and afflicted. Now this was a great cause 
for lamentations among the people, while others were 
abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need 
of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the 
poor and the needy; feeding the hungry; and suffering all 
manner of afflictions, for Christ’s sake, who should come 
according to the spirit of prophecy, looking forward to 
that day, thus retaining a remission of their sins; being 
filled with great joy, because of the resurrection of the 
dead, according to the will, and power, and deliverance of 
Jesus Christ from the bands of death. And now it came 
to pass that Alma, having seen the afflictions of the hum- 
ble followers of God, and the persecutions which were 
heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and 
seeing all their inequality, began to be very sorrowful; 
nevertheless the spirit of the Lord did not fail him. 
And he selected a wise man who was among the elders of 
the church, and gave him power according to the voice of 
the people, that he might have power to enact laws ac- 
cording to the laws which had been given, and to put them 
in force, according to the wickedness and the crimes of 
the people. Now this man’s name was Nephihah, and he 
was appointed chief judge; and he sat in the judgment 
seat, to judge and to govern the people. Now Alma did 
not grant unto him the office of being high priest over 
the church, but he retained the. office of high priest unto 
himself; but he delivered the judgment seat unto Nephi- 
hah: and this he did, that he himself might go forth among 
his people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might 
preach the word of God unto them, to stir them up in re- 
membrance of their duty, and that he might pull down, 
by the word of God, all the pride and craftiness, and all 
the contentions which were among his people, seeing no 
way that he might reclaim them, save it were in bearing 
down in pure testimony against them. And thus in the 
commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the 
judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the 
judgment seat to Nephihah, and confined himself wholly 
to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the 
testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revela- 


tion and prophecy. 








BOOK OF ALMA. 227 
CHAPTER III. 


The words which Alma, the High Priest, according to the 
holy order of God, delivered to the people in their cities and 
villages throughout the land. 


Now it came to pass that Alma began to deliver the 
word of God unto the people, firat in the land of Zara- 
hemla, and from thence throughout all the land. And 
these are the words which he spake to the people in the 
church which was established in the city of Zarahemla, 
according to his own record, saying: I, Alma, having been 
consecrated by my father Alma, to be a high priest over 
the church of God, he having power and authority from 
God to do these things, behold, I say unto you, that he 
.began to establish a church in the land which was in the 
borders of Nephi; yea, the land which was called the land 
of Mormon; yea, and he did baptize his brethren in the 
waters of Mormon. And behold, I say unto you, they 
were delivered out of the hands of the people of king 
Woah, by the mercy and power of God. And behold, 
after that, they were brought into bondage by the hands 
of the Lamanites, in the wilderness; yea, I say unto you, 
they were in captivity, and again the Lord did deliver 
them out of bondage by the power of his word; and we 
were brought into this land and here we began to estab- 
lish the church of God throughout this land also. And 
now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you that belong 
to this church, have you sufficiently retained in remem- 
brange the captivity of your fathers? Yea, and have you 
sufficiently retained in remembrance his mercy and long 
suffering towards them? And moreover, have ye suffi- 
ciently retained, in remembrance that he has delivered 
their souls from heli? Behold, he changed their hearts; 
yea, he awakened them out of a deep sleep, and they 
awoke untoGod. Behold they were in the midst of dark- 
negs; nevertheless their souls.were illuminated by the 
light of the everlasting word; yea, they were encircled 
about by the bands of death,.and the chains of hell, and 
an everlasting destruction did await them. And now I 
ask of you my brethren, were they destroyed? Behold, I 
say unto you, nay, they were not. And again I ask, were 
the bands of death broken, and the chains of bell which en- 
circled them about, were they loosed? I say unto you, 
yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand, and 
they did sing redeeming love. And I say unto you, that 
they are saved. And now J ask of you on what condi-- 


226 BOOK OF ALMA. 


ing their backs upon the needy, and the naked, and thoge 
‘who were hungry, and those who were athirst, and those 
who were sick and afflicted. Now this was a great cause 
for lamentations among the people, while others were 
abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need 
of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the 
poor and the needy; feeding the hungry; and suffering all 
manner of afflictions, for Christ’s sake, who should come 
according to the spirit of prophecy, looking forward to 
that day, thus retaining a remission of their sins; being 
filled with great joy, because of the resurrection of the 
dead, according to the will, and power, and deliverance of 
Jesus Christ from the bands of death. And now it came 
to pass that Alma, having seen the afflictions of the hum- 
ble followers of God, and the persecutions which were 
heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and 
seeing all their inequality, began to be very sorrowful; 
nevertheless the spirit of the Lord did not fail him. 
And he selected a wise man who was among the elders of 
the church, and gave him power according to the voice of 
the people, that he might have power to enact laws ac- 
cording to the laws which had been given, and to put them 
in force, according to the wickedness and the crimes of 
the people. Now this man’s name was Nephihah, and he 
was appointed chief judge; and he sat in the judgment 
seat, to judge and to govern the people. Now Alun did 
not grant unto him the office of being high priest over 
the church, but he retained the. office of high priest unto 
himself; but he delivered the judgment seat unto Nephi- 
hah: and this he did, that he himself might go forth among 
his people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might 
preach the word of God unto them, to stir them up in re 
membrance of their duty, and that he might pull down, 
by the word of God, all the pride and craftiness, and all 
the contentions which were among his people, seeing no 
way that he might reclaim them, save it were in bearing 
down in pure testimony against them, And thus in the 
commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the 
judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the 
judgment seat to Nephihah, and confined himself wholly 
to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the 
testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revela- 
tion and prophecy. 





BOOK OF ALMA. 227 
CHAPTER III. 


The words which Alma, the High Priest, according to the 
holy order of God, delivered to the people in their cities and 
villages throughout the land. 


Now it came to pass that Alma began to deliver the 
word of God unto the people, first in the land of Zara- 
hemla, and from thence throughout all the land. And 
these are the words which he spake to the people in the 
church which was established in the city of Zarahemla, 
according to his own record, saying: I, Alma, having been 
consecrated by my father Alma, to be a high priest over 
the church of God, he having power and authority from 
God to do these things, behold, I say unto you, that he 
began to establish a church in the land which was in the 
borders of Nephi; yea, the land which was called the land 
of Mormon; yea, and he did baptize his brethren in the 
waters of Mormon. And behold, I say unto you, they 
were delivered out of the hands of the people of king 
Noah, by the mercy and power of God. And behold, 
after that, they. were brought into bondage by the hands 
of the Lamanites, in the wilderness; yea, I say unto you, 
they were in captivity, and again the Lord did deliver 
them outof bondage by the power of his word; and we 
were brought into this land and here we began to estab- 
lish the church of God throughout this land also. And 
now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you that belong 
to this church, have you sufficiently retained in remem- 
brange the captivity of your fathers? Yea, and have you 
sufficiently retained in remembrance his mercy and long 
suffering towards them? And moreover, have ye suffi- 
ciently retained in remembrance that he has delivered 
their souls from hell? Behold, he changed their hearts; 
yea, he awakened them out of a deep sleep, and they 
awoke unto God. Behold they were in the midst of dark- 
ness; nevertheless their souls were illuminated by the 
light of the everlasting word; yea, they were encircled 
about by the bands of death, and the chains of hell, and 
an everlasting destruction did await them. And nowl 
ask of you my brethren, were they destroyed? Behold, 1 
say unto you, nay, they were not. And again I ask, were 
the bands of death broken, and the chains of hell which en- 
circled them about, were they loosed? I say unto you, 
yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand, and 
they did sing redeeming love. And I say unto you, that 
they are saved. And now I ask of you on what condi-: 


2e BOOK OF ALMA. 


tions are they saved? Yea, what grounds had they to 
hope for salvation? What is the cause of their 
loosed from the bands of death? Yea, and also, the 
chains of hell? Behold, I can tell you: did not my father 
Alma believe in the words which were delivered by the 
mouth of Abinadi? And was he not a holy prophet? 
Did he not speak the words of God, and my father Alma 
beliove them? And according to his faith there was 4 
mighty change wrought in his heart. Behold I say unto 
you, that this is all true. And behold, he preached the 
word unto your fathers, and a mighty change was alse 
wrought in their hearts; and they humbled themselves, 
and put their trust in the true and living God. And be- 
hold, they were faithful until the end; therefore they were 
saved. And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of 
the church, have ye spiritually been born of God? Have 
ye received his image in your countenances? Have 
ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts? Do 
ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created 
you? Do you look forward with an eye of faith, and 
view this mortal body raised in immortality, and this cor- 
ruption raised in incorruption, to stand before God, to be 
judged according to the deeds which‘have been done in 
the mortal body? I say unto you, can you imagine to 
yourselves that ye hear the voice of the Lord, saying unto 
you, in that day, come unto me ye blessed, for behold, 
your works have been the works of righteousness upor 
the face of the earth? Or do ye imagine to yourselves 
that ye can lie unto the Lord in that day, and say, Lord, 
our works have been righteous works upon the face of the 
earth, and that he will save you? Or otherwise, can yè 
imagine yourselves brought before the tribunal of God, 
with your souls filled with guilt and remorse; having & 
remembrance of all your guilt: yea, a perfect remem- 
brance of all your wickedness; yea, a remembrance that 
ye have set at defiance the commandments of God. I æy 
unto you, can ye look up to God at that day with a pure 
heart and clean hands? [I say unto you, can you look up, 
having the image of God engraven upon your countenel- 
ces? I say unto you, can ye think of being saved when 
you have yielded yourselves to become subjects to thé 
devil? I say. unto you, ye will know at that day, that ye 
cannot be saved: for there can no man be saved except 
his garments are washed white: yea, his garments must 
be purified untii they are — from all stain, — 
the blood of him of whom it has been spoken by our fa 
ers who should come to redeem his people from their sins 


BOOK OF ALMA. 229 


And now I ask of, you, my brethren, how will any of you 
feel, if ye shall stand before the bar of God, having your 
yments stained with blood, and all manner of filthiness? 
Behold, what will these things testify againat you? Be- 
hold, will they not testify that ye are mirderers, yea, and 
also that ye are guilty of all mannerof wickedness? Be- 
hold, my brethren, do ye suppose that such an one can 
havea place to sit down in the kingdom of God, with 
Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob, and also all the 
hely prophets, whose garments are cleansed, and are spot- 
less pure and white? I say unto you, nay, except ye 
meke our Creator a liar from the beginning; or suppose 
that he isa liar from tho beginning, ye cannot suppose’ 
that sach can have place in the kingdom of heaven, but 
they shall be cast out, for they are the children of the 
kingdom of the devil. And now behold, I say unto you, 
my brethren, if ye have experienced a change of heart, 
and if ye have felt to sing the song of redeeming love, I 
would ask, can ye feel so now? Have ye walked, keep- 
ing yourselves blameless before God? Could ye say, if 
ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that 
ye have been sufficiently humble? That your garments 
ave heen cleansed’ and made white, through the blood 
of Christ, who will come to redeem his people from 
their sins? Behold, are ye stripped of pride} I say unto 
fou, if ye are not, ye are not prepared to meet God. Be- 
old-ye must prepare quickly, for the kingdom of heav- 
en is soon at hand, and such an one hath not eternal life. 
Behold, I say, is there one among you who is not stripped 
of envy? Isay unto you, that such an one is not prepared, 
and I would that he should prepare quickly, for the hour 
is close at hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall 
come; for such an one is not found guiltless. 

And again I say unto you, is there one among you that 
doth make a mock of his brother, or that heapeth upon him 
persecutions? Wo unto such an one, for he is not prepared, 
and the time is at hand that he must repent, or he cannot 
be saved; yea, even wo unto all ye workers of iniquity; 
repent, repent, for the Lord God hath spoken it. Behold, 
he sendeth an invitation unto all men; for the arms of 
Mercy are extended towards them, and he saith, repent, 
and I will receive you; yea, he saith, come unto me and 
yeshall partake of the fruit of the tree of life; yea, ye shall 
eat and drink of the bread and the waters of life freely; 
yea, come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, 
and ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire; for 


Bae. BOOK OF ALMA. 


behold, the fime is at hand that whosoeyet bringeth forth 
not good fruit, or whosoever doeth not the works of right- 
eousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn. O ye 
workers of iniquity; ye that are puffed up in the vain 
things of the world; ye that have professed to have known 
the ways of righteousness; nevertheless have gone astray, 
as sheep having no shepherd, notwithstanding a shepherd 
hath called after you, and art still calling after you, but ye 
will not hearken unto his voice. Behold, I say unto you, 
that the good — doth call you; yes, and in his own 
name he doth call you, which is the name of Chriet; and 
if ye will not hearken unto the voice of the good shepherd, to 
the name by which ye are called, behold, ye arg not the 
sheep of the good shepherd. And now if ye are not the 
sheep of the good: mpun of what fold are ye? Behold, 
I say unto you, that the devil is your shepherd, and ye are 
of his fold; and now who can sony this? Behold, I say 
unto you, whosoever denieth this, is a liar and a child of 
the devil; for I say unto you, that whatsoever is good, 
cometh from God, and whatsoever is evil, cometh from the 
devil; therefore, if a man — forth good: works, he 
hearkeneth unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he 
doth follow him; but whosoever bringeth forth evil works, 
the same becometh a child of the devil; for he hearkeneth 
unte his voice, and doth follow him. And whosoever doeth 
this must receive his wages of him; therefore, for his wa- 
ges he receiveth death, as to things pertaining unto right- 
eousness, being dead unto all good works. And now my 
brethren, I would that ye should hear me, for I speak in 
the energy of my soul; -for behold, I have spoken unto you 
plain, that ye cannot err, or have spoken according to the 
commandments of God. For I am ealled to speak after 
this manner, according to the holy order of God, which is 
in Christ Jesus: yea, lam commanded to stand and testify 
unto this people the things which have been spoken by our 
fathers, concerning the things which are to come.: And 
this is not all. Do ye not suppose that I know of these 
things myself? Behold, I testify unto you, that I do know 
that these things whereof I have spoken, are true. And 
how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, 
I say unto you, they are made known unto me by the holy 
ini of God. Behold, I have fasted- and prayed many days, 
that I might know these things of m self And now I do 
know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God heth 
made them manifest unto me by his holy spirit; and this 
is the spirit of revelation which is in me. d moreover, 
I say unto you, that as it has thus been revealed unto me, 


BooK OF ALMA. 231 


that the words which have been spoken by our fathers, are 
true, even so according to the spirit of prophecy, which is 
in me, which is also by the manifestation of the spirit of 
God, I say unto you, that I know of myself that-whatsoever 
I shall say unto you eoncerning that which is to come, is 
true; and Isay unto you, that I know that Jesus Christ 
shall come; yea, the Son, the only begotten of the Father, 
full of grace, and mercy, and truth. And behold, it is he 
that cometh to take away the sins of the world; yea, the 
sins of every man who steadfastly believeth on his name. 
And now Í say unto you, that thisis the order after which 
I am called; yea, to preach unto my beloved ‘brethren; 
yea,and every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach 
unto all, both old and young, both bond and free; yea, I 
say unto you, the aged, and also the middle aged, and tha 
rising generation; yea, to cry unto them that they must ree 
pent and be born again; yea, thus saith the‘spirit, repent 
all ye ends of the earth, for the kingdom of heaven is soon 
athand; yea, the Son of God cometh in his glory, in his 
might, majesty, power and dominion. Yea, my beloved 
brethren, I say unto you, that the spirit saith, behold the 
glory of the king of all the earth; and also the King of 
eaven shall very soon shine forth among all the children 
of men; and also the spirit saith unto me, yea, crieth unto 
me with a mighty voice, saying, go forth and say unto this 
people, repent, for except ye repent, ye can in no wise in- 
erit the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, 
the spirit saith, behold, the axe is laid at the root of the 
tree; therefore every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, 
shall be hewn down and cast into the fire; yea, a fire which 
cannot be consumed; even an unquenchable fire. Behold, 
and remember, the holy one hath spoken it. And now my 
beloved brethren, I say unto you, can ye withstand these 
sayings; yea, can ye lay aside these things, and trample 
the holy one under your feet; yea, can ye be-puffed up in 
the ide of your hearte; yea, will ye still persist in the 
Wearing of costly apparel, and setting your hearts upon the 
Vain things of the world, upon your riches; yea, will ye 
persist in supposing that ye are better one than another; 
yea, will ye persist in the persecutions of your brethren, 
who humble themselves, and do walk after the holy order 
¢f God, wherewith they have been brought into this church, 
having been sanctified by the holy spirit; and they do bring 
forth works which are meet for repentance; yea, and wi 
you persist in turning your backs upon the poor, and‘the 
needy, and in withholding your substance from them? And 
finally, alt ye that will persist ip your wickedness, I say 


. £32 BOOK OF ALMA. 


unto you, that these are they who shall be hewn down and 
cast into the fire, except they speedily repent. __ 

And now I say unto you, all you that are desirous to fol- 
low the voiee of the good shepherd, come ye out from the 
wicked, and be ye separate, and touch not their unclean 
things; and behold, their names shall be blotted out, that 
the names of the witked shall not be numbered among the 
names of the righteous, that the word of God may be ful- 
filled, which saith, the names of the wicked shall not be 
mingled with the names of my people. For the names of 
the righteous shall be written in the book of life; and unto 
them will I grant an inheritance at my right hand.’ And 
now my brethren, what have ye to say against this? I say 
unto you, if ye speak against it, it matters not, for the word 
of God must be fulfilled. For what shepherd is there among 
you having many sheep, doth not watch over them, that 
the wolves enter not and devour his flock? „And behold, 
if a wolf enter his flock, doth he not drive him out? Yea, 
and at the lest, if he can, he will destroy him. And now 
I say unto you, that the good shepherd doth call after you; 
and if you will hearken unto his voice, he will bring you 
into his fold, and ye are his sheep; and he’ commandeth 
you that ye suffer no ravenous wolf to enter among you, 
that ye may not be destroyed. : 

And now I, Alma, do command you in the language of 
him who hath commanded me, that ye observe to do the 
words which I have spoken unto you. I speak by way of 
command unto you that belong to the church; and unto 
those who do not belong to the church, I speak by way of 
Invitation, saying, come and be baptized unto repentance, 
that ye aleo may be partakers of the fruit of he tree of life. 


—99o— 


a CHAPTER IV. 


AND now it came to pass that after Alma had made an 
end of speaking unto the people of the church, which was 
established in the city of Zarahemla, he ordained priests 
and elders, by laying on his hands according to the order 
of God, to preside and watch over the church. And it came 
to pass that whosoever did not belong to the church who 
Tepented of their sins, were baptized unto repentance, and 
were received into the church. And it also came to 
that whosoever did belong to the church, that did not re- 
pent of their wickedness, and humble themselves before 








“BOOK OF ALMA, M 


God; I mean those who were lifted up in the pride of theirs 
hearts; the same were rejected, and their names were blote 
ted out, that their names weremot numbered among those 
ef the righteous; and thus they began to establish the ore 
der of the church in the city-of Zarahemla. Now I would 
that ye should understand that the word of God was liberal 
unto all; that none were deprived of the privilege of ase 
sembling themselves together to hear the word of God; 
nevertheless the children of God were commanded that 
they should gather themseives together oft, and join ia 
fasting and mighty prayer, in behalf of the welfare of the 
souls of those who knew not God. 

And now it came to pass that when Alma had made 
these regulations, he departed from them, yea, from the 
church which wasin the city of Zarahemla, and went over 
upan the east of the river Siden, into the valley of Gideon, 
there having been a city built which was called the city 
of Gideon, which was in the valley that was called Gideon, 
being called after the man who was slain by the hand of 
Nehor with thesword. And Alma went and began tp dee 
clare the word of God unto the church which wag estabe 
lished in the valley of Gideon, according to the revelation 
of the truth of the word which hed been spoken by his 
fathers, and according te the spirit of prophecy which was 
in him, according to the testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son 
of God, who should come to redeem his people from their 
sins, and the holy order by which he was called. And 
thus itis written. Amen. : 


—æ 


CHAPTER V. 


Thewords of Alma which he delivered to the people in Gideon, 
according to his own record. 


Benozp my beloved brethren, seeing that I have beon 
permitted to come unto you, therefore I attempt to address 
you in my language; yea, by my own mouth, seeing that 
ìt is the first time that m — unto you by the words 
of my mouth, I having been wholly confined to the judg- 
ment seat, having had much business that I could not come 
unto you: and even Į could not have come now at this time, 
were it not that the judgment seat hath been given to ane 
other to reign in my stead; — the Lord in much merey 


S34 BOOK OF ALMA. 


hath granted that I should come unto you. And behold, 
I have come having great hopes and much desire that I 
should find that ye had humbled yourselves before God, 
and that ye had continued in the supplicating of his grace, 
that I should find that ye were blameless ators him; that 
I should find that ye were not in the awful dilemma that 
our brethren were in at Zarahemla; but blessed be the 
name of God, that he hath given me to know, yea, hath 
iven, unto me the exceeding great joy of knowing that 
they are established again in the way of his righteousness. 
And I trust, according to the spirit of God which is in me, 
that I shall also have joy over you: nevertheless I. do not 
desire that my joy over you should come by the cause of 
so much afflictions and sorrow which I have had for the 
brethren at Zarahemla; for behold, my joy cometh over 
them after wading through much afflictions and sorrow. 
But behold, I trust that ye are not in a state of so much 
unbelicf as were your brethren: I trust that ye are not 
lifted up in the pride of your hearts; yea, I trust that ye 
have not set. your hearts upon riches, and the vain things 
of the world; yea, I trust that you do not worship idols, 
but that ye do sop the true and the living God, and 
that ye look forward for the remission of your sins with an 
everlasting faith which is to come. For behold, I say unto 
you, there be many things to come; and behold, there is 
one thing which is of more importance than they all: for 
behold, the time is not far distant, that the Redeemer liv- 
eth and cometh among his people. Behold, I do not say 
that he will come among us at the time of his dwelling in 
his mortal tabernacle; for behold, the spirit hath not said 
unto me that this should be the case. Now as to this thin 
I do not know; but this much I do know, that the Lor 
God hath power to do all things which are according to his 
word. But behold, the spirit hath said this much unto me, 
saying: cry unto this people, saying, repent ye, and pre- 
pare the way of the Lord, and walk in his paths, which 
are straight: for behold, the kingdom of heaven is at 
hand, and the Son of God cometh upon the face of the 
earth. And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusa- 
lem, which is the land of our forefathers, she being a vir- 
gin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall We overshad- 
owed, and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost, and 
bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of God; and he shall 
go forth, suffering pains, and afflictions, and temptations 
of every kind; and this that the word might be fulfilled 
which saith, he will take upon him the pains and the sick- 
nesses of his people; and he will take upon him death, 


ge Re ee ee ee: Oe ee — vie | cee tte te Oe | 


BOOK OF MOSIAR. 235 


that he may loose the bands of death which bind his péo- 
ple; and he will take upon bim their infirmities, that hie 
bowels may be filled with mercy, according to the flesh, 
that he may know according to the ftesh how to succor his 
people according to their infirmities. Now the spirit know= 
eth all things; nevertheless the Son of God suffereth ac- 
cording to the flesh, that he might take upon him the sing 
of his people, that he might blot oyt their transgressions, 
according to the power of his deliverance; and now behold, 
this is the testrmony which isin me. Now I gay unto you, 
that ye must repent, and be born again: forthe spirit saith, 
if ye are not born again, ye cannot inherit the kingdom of 
heaven: therefore come and be baptized unto repentance, 
that ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may have 
faith on the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the 
world, who is mighty to save and to cleanse from all un- 
righteousness; yea, Í say unto you, come end fear not, and 
lay aside every sin, which easily doth beset you, which 
doth bind you down to destruction; yea, comeend go forth, 
and shew unto your God that ye are willing to repent of 
your sins, and enter into a covenant with him to keep his 
commandments, and witness it unto him this day, by goin 

into the waters of baptism; and whosoever doeth this, an 

keepeth the commandments of God from thenceforth, the 
same will remember that 1 say unto him, yea, he will re- 
member that I have said unto him, he shall have eternal 
life, according to the testimony of the Holy Spirit, which 
testifieth in me. And now my beloved brethren, do you 
believe these things? Behold, I say unto you, yea, I know 
thet yo believe them; and the way that I know that ye be- 
lieve them, is by the manifestation of the spirit which is in 
me. And now because your faith is sons concerning 
that, yea, concerning the things which I have spoken, 
great is my joy. ForasI said unto you from the begin- 
ning, that I had much desire that ye were not in the state 
of dilemma like your brethren, even so I have found that 
my desires have been gratified. For I perceive that ye are 
in the paths of righteousness: I perceive that ye are in the 
path which leads to the kingdom of God; yea, I perceive 
that ye are making his patha straight; I perceive that it has 
been made known unto you by the testimony of his word, 
that he cannot walk in crooked paths; neither doth he va- 
ty from that which he hath: said; neither hath he a shadow 
of turning from the right to the left, or from that which is 
tight to that which is wrong; therefore, his course is one 
eternal round. - And he doth not dwell in unholy temples; 
heither can filthiness, or any thing which is unclean be re- 


s3 BOOK OF ALMA. 


eeived into the kingdom of God; therefore I say unto you, 
the time spall come, yea, and it shall be at the last day, 
thet he who is filthy, shall remain in his filthiness. 

And now my beloved brethren, I have said these things 
unto you, that I might awaken you to a senge of your duty 
to God, that ye may walk blameless before him; that ye 
may walk after the holy order of God, after which ye have 
been received. And now I would that ye should be hum- 
ble, and be submissive, and gentle; easy to be entreated; 
full of patience and long suffering; being temperate in all 
things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of 
God at all times; agking for whatsoever things ye stand 
in need, both spiritual and temporel; always returni 
thanks unto God. for whatsoever things ye do receive, an 
see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will 
always abound in good works; and may the Lord bless 
yous and keep your garments spotless, that ye may at last 

e brought to sit down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, 
and the holyeprophets who hava been ever since the world 
began, having your garments spotless, even as their-gar- 
ments are spotless in the kingdom of heaven, to go no’ 
more out. 

And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these 
words unto you, according to the spint which testifieth in 
me; and my soul doth —— rejoice, because of the 
exceeding diligence and heed which ye heve given unto 
my word. And now, may the peace of God rest upon you, 
and upon your houses and lands, and upon your flocks 
end herds, and all that you possess; your womon and your. 
children, aceording to your faith and good words, from this 
time forth and forever. And thus I kave spoken. Amen. 


—æ 


CHAPTER VI. 


Anp mow it came to pass that Alma returned from thé 
land of Gideon, after having taught the people of Gideon 
many things which cannot be written, having establishe 
the order of the church, according as he had before done 
in the land of Zarahemla; yea, he returned to his own 
house at Zarahemla to test himself from the labors which 
he had performed. And thus ended the ninth year of the 
— of the judges over the people of Nephi. 

: And it came to pase in the commencement of the tent 


year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi 


360K OF ALMA. 237 


that Alma departed from thence, and took his journey over 
into the land of Melek, on the west of the. river Sidon, on 
the west, by the borders of the wilderness: and he began 
to teach the people in the land of Melek, — to 
the holy order of God by which he had been called; and he 
began to teach the people throughout all the land of Melek. 

And it came to pass that the people came to him through- 
out all the borders of the land which was by the wilder- 
ness side. And they were baptized throughout all the 
land, so that when he had finished his work at Melek, he 
departed thence, and traveled three days’ journey on the 
north of the land of Melek; and he came te a city which 
was called’Ammonihah. Now it was the custom of the 
people of Nephi, to call their lands, and their cities, and 
their villages, yea, even all their small villages, after the 
name of him who first possessed them; and thus it was 
with the land of Ammonihah. 

And it came to pass that when Alma had come to the 
city of Ammonihah, he began to preach’ the word of God 
unto them. Now satan had gotten great hold upon the 
hearts of the people of the city of Ammonihah; therefore 
they would not hearken unto the words of Alma. Never- 
theless Alma labored much in the spirit, wrestling with 
God in mighty prayer, that he would pour out his spirit 
upon the people who were in the city: that he would also 
grant that ho might baptize them unto repentance; never- 
theless, they hardened their ‘hearts, saying unto+him, be- 
hold, we know that thou art Alma; and we know that 
thou art high priest. over the church which thou hast estab- 
lished in many parts of the land, according to your tradi- 
tion; and we are not of thy church, and we do not believe 
in such foolish traditions. And now we know that because 
we are not of thy church, we know that thou hast no pow- 
er over us; and thou hast delivered up the judgment seat 
unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief judge over 
us. Now when the people had said this, and had with- 
stood all his words, and reviled him, and spit upon him, 
and caused: that he should be cast out of their city, he de- 
parted thence and took his journey towards the city which 
was called Aaron. 

And it came to pass thet while he was journeying thith- 
er, being weighed down with sorrow, wading through 
much tribulation and anguish of soul, because of the wiek- 
edness of the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, 
it came to pass that while Alma was thus weighed down 
With sorrow, behold an angel of the Lord appeared unto 

saying, blessed art thou, Alma; therefore lift up thy 


2 ROOK OF Alii 


- heed and rejoice, for thou hast great cause to rejolte: for 
thou hast been faithful in keeping the commanaments of 
God from the time which thou received thy first message 
from him. Behold, I ain he that delivered it unto you; 
and behold, I am sent to command thee that thou retum 
to the city of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the peo 
ple of the city yea, preach unto them. Yea, say unto 
them except they repent, the Lord God will destroy them. 
For behold, they do study at this time that they may de- 
. «troy the liberty of thy people, (for thus saith the Lord.) 
which is contrary tothe statutes, and judgments, and com- 
mandments which he has given unto his people. 

Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his 
message from the angel of the Lord, he returned speedily 
to the land of Ammonihah. And he entered the city by 
enother way, yea, by the way which is on the south of the 
city of Ammonihah. And as he entered the city he was 
an hungered, and he said to aman, will ye give to an hum- 
ble servant of God something to eat? And the man said 
unto him, I am a Nephite, and I know that thou art a holy 
prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an angel said 
in 8 vision, thou shalt receive; therefore go with me into 
my house, and I will impart unto thee of my food; and I 
know that thou will be a blessing unto me and my house, 
And it came to pass that the man received him into his 
house; and the man was called Amulek; and he brought 
forth bread and meat, and sat’ before Alma. 

And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was filled; 
and he blessed Almutek and his house,.and he gave thanks 
unto God. And after he had eat and was filled, he said 
unto-Amulek, I am Alma, and am the high priest over the 
ehurch of God throughout the land. And beheld, I have 
been called to preach the word of God among all this peo- 

le, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy; 2 

was in this land, and they would not receive me, bat 
they cast me out, and I was about to set my back towards 
this land forever. But behold, 1 have been comman 
that I should turn again ead prophesy unto this peopl, 
yea, and to testify against them concerning their iniquities 
And now Amulek, because thou hast fed me and took mè 
in, thou art blessed: for I was an hungered, for I hud fast- 
ed many days. And Alma tarried many days with Amu- 
lek, béfore he began to beg unto the people. 

And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross 
in their iniquitics. And the word came to Alma, sayings 
g0; and also say unto my servant Amulek, fro forth end 
prophesy unto this people, saying, repent ye, for thus saith 


BOOK OF. ALMA. ap 


the. Lord, except re menent, I will visit this people in mine | 
anger; yea, and I will not turn my fierce anger away. 
And Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the peo- 
le, to declare the words of God unto them; and they were 
lled with the Holy Ghost; and they had power given unto 
them, insomuch that they could not be confined in dun- 
geons; neither were it possible, that any man could slay 
them; nevertheless they did not exercise their power until 
they were bound in bands and cast into prison. Now this 
was done that the Lord might show forth his power in them. 
And it came to pass that they went forth and began to 
preach and to prophesy unto the people, according to the 
svirit and power which the Lord had given them. ‘ 


v 


— GE 


CHAPTER VII. 


The words of Alma, and also the words of Amulek which were 
declared unto the people who were in the land of Ammo- 
mthah. And also they are cast into prison, and delivered 
by the mtraculous power of God which was tn them, ac- 
cording to the record of Alma. 


Anp again: I Alma, having been commanded of God 
that I should take Amulek and go forth and preach again 
unto this people, or the people who were in the city of 
Ammonihah, it came to pass as I begun to preach unto 
them, they began to contend with me, saying, who art 
thou? Suppose ye that we shall believe the testimony of 
one man, although he shquld preach unto us that the earth 
should pass away? Now they, understood. not the words 
which they spake; for they knew not that the earth should 
pass away. And they said also, we will not believe thy 
words, if thou shouldst prophesy that this great cjty should 
be destroyed in one day. Now they knew not that God 
could dosuch marvelous works, for they were a hard heaft- 
ed and a stiffnecked people. And they said who is God, 
that sendeth no more authority than one man among this 
people, to declare unto them the truth of such great and 
marvelous things? And they stood forth to lay their 
hands on me; but behold, they did not. And I stood 
with boldness to declare unto them, yea, I did boldly 
testify unto them, saying; behold, O ye wicked and 
perverse generation, how have ye forgotten tho tradi- 
tien of your fathers; yea, how soon ye have forgotten the 


240 BOOK OF ALMA. 


commandments of God. Do ye not remember that our 
father Lehi was brought out af Jerusalem by the hand of 
God? Do ye not remember that they were all led by him 
through the wilderness? And have ye forgotten so soon 
how many times he delivered our fathers out of the hands 
of their enemies, and preserved them from being destroyed, 
even by the hands of thei, own brethren? Yea, and if it 
had not been for his matchless power, and hie mercy, and 
his long suffering towards us, we should unavoidably have 
been cut off from the face of the earth, long before this 
period of time, and perhaps been consigned to a state of 
endless misery and wo. Behold, now I say unto you, that 
he commandeth you to repent; and except ye. repent, ye 
can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God. But be- 
hold, this is not all: he has commanded you to repent, or 
he will utterly destroy you from off the face of the earth; 

ea, he will visit you in his anger, and in his fierce anger 

e will not turn away. Behold,.do ye not remember the 
words which he spake unto Lehi, saying, that inasmuch 
as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in 
the land? And again it is said, that inasmuch as ye will 
not keep my commandments, ye shall be cut off from the 
presences of the Lord. Now I would that ye should remem: 

er, that inasmuch as the Lamanites have not kept the 
commandments of God, they have been cut off from the 

resence of the Lord. Now we see that the word of the 

ord has been verified in this thing, and the Lamanites 
have been cut off from his presence, from the beginning of 
their transgressions in the land. Nevertheless I say unto 

ou, that it shall be more tolerable for them in the day of 
judgment, than for you, if ye remain in your sins; yea, and 
even more tolerable for them in this life, than for you, ex- 
cept ye repent, for there are many promises which are èx- 
tended to the Lamanites: for it is because of the traditions 
of their fathers that cause them to remain in their state of 
ignorance; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them, 
and prolong their existance in the land. And at some 
period of time they will be brought to believe in his word, 
and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of their 
fathers; and many of them will be saved, for the Lord will be 
merciful unto all who call on his name. But behold, I say 
unto you, that if ye persist in your wickedness, that your 
days shall not be prolonged in the land, for the Lamanites 
shall be sent upon you; and if ye repent not, they shall 
come in a time when you know not, and ye shall be visited 
with utter destruction; and’ it shall be according to the 
fierce anger of the Lord; for he will not suffir you that 








BOOK OF ALMA. A} 


ye shall livein your iniquities, to destroy his people: I say 
unto you, nay; he would rather suffer that the Lamanites 
might destroy all this people who are called the people of 
Nephi, if it were possible that they could fall into sins and 
transgressions, after having had so much light and so much 
knowledge given unto them of the Lord their God; yea, 
after having been such a highly favored people of the Lord; 
je after having been favored above every other nation, 
kindred, tongue or people; after baving had all things 
mede known unto them, according to their desires, and 
their faith, and prayers, of that which has been, and which 
is, and which is to come; having béen vistited by the spirit 
of God; having conversed with angels, and having been 
spoken unto by the voice of the Lord; and having the spirit 
of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and also man 

gifts; the gift of speaking with tongues, and the gift o 

preaching, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the gift of 
translation: yea, and after having been delivered of God out 
of the land of Jerusalem, by the hand of the Lord; having 
been saved from famine, and from sickness, and all manner 
of diseases of every kind; and they having been waxed 
strong in battle, that they might not be destroyed; having 
been brought out of bondage time after time, and having 
been kept and preserved until now; and a have been 
prospered until they are rich in all manner of things. And 
now behold I say unto you, that if this people, who have 
received so many blessings from the hand of the Lord, 
should transgress, contrary to the light and knowledge 
which they do have; I say unto you, that if this be the 
case; that if they should fall into transgression, that it 
would be far more tolerable for.the Lamanites than for 
them. For behold, the promises of the Lord are extended 
to the Lamanites, but they are not unto you, if ye trans- 
gress: for-has not the Lord expressly promised and firml 

decreed, that if ye will rebel against him, that ye shall 
utterly be destroyed from off the face of the earth? And 
now for this cause, that ye may not be destroyed, the Lord 
has sent his angel to visit many of his people, declaring 
unto them that they must go forth and cry mightily unto this 
people, saying, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is 
nigh at hand; and not many days hence, the Son of God 
shall come in his glory; and his glory shall be the glory 
of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace, equity 
and truth, full of patience, mercy, and long suffering, quick 
tohear the cries of his people, and to answer their prayers. 
And behold, he cometh to redeem those who will be bap- 


#42 BOOK OF’ ALMA. 

tized unto repentance, through faith on his name; there- 
fore prepare ye the way of the Lord, for'the time is at hand 
that all men shall reap a reward.of their works, according 
to that which they have been: if they have been righteous, 
they shall reap the salvation of their souls, according td 
the power and deliverance of Jesus Christ; and if they 
have been evil, they shall reap the damnation of their souls, 
according to the power and captivation of the devil. Now 
behold, this is the voice of the angel, crying unto the peo- 
ple. And now my beloved brethren, for ye are my breth- 
ren, and ye had ought to be beloved, and ye had ought to 
bring forth works which are meet for repentance, seeing 
that your hearts have been grossly hardened against the 
word of God, and seeing that ye are a lost and a fallea 

eople. BS 

Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spoken these 
words, behold, thé people were wroth with me, because I 
said unto them that they were a hard hearted and a stiff- 
necked people; and also because I said unto them that they 
were a lost and fallen people, they were angry with me, 
and sought to lay their hands upon me, that they might 
cast me into prison; but it came to pass that the Lord did 
not suffer them that they should take me at that time and 
cast me into prison. 

And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood forth, 
and began to preach unto them also. And now the words 
of Amulek are not all written; nevertheless a part of bis 
words are written in this book. 


—ö— 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto 
the people who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying; 
I dm Amulek; I am the son of Giddonah, who was the 
son of Ishmael, who was a descendant of Aminadi: and it 
wae that same Aminadi who interpreted the writing which 
was upon the wall of the temple, which was written by the 
finger of God. And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, 
who was the son of Lehi, who came out of the land of 
Jerusalem, who was a descendant of Manasseh, who was 
the son of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt by the hands 
of his brethren. And behold, I am also a man of no small 
reputation among all those who know me; yea, and behold, 
I have many kindreds and friends, and I have algo acquir- 





"= 


BOOK OF ALMA. 243 


ed much riches by the hand ọf my industry; nevertheless, 
after all this, I never have known much of the ways of the 
Lord, and his mysteries and marvelous power. I said I never 
had known much of these things; but behold I mistake, for 
I have seen much of his mysteries and his magvelous power; 
yea, even in the Paora of the lives of this people; 
nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called man 

times, and Í would not hear; therefore I knew concerning 
these things, yet I would not know; therefore I went on 
rebelling against God, in the wickedness of my heart, even 
nntil the fourth day of this seventh month, which isin the 
tenth year of thereign of the judges. As Iwas journeyin 

to see a very near kindred, behold an angel of the Lor 

appeared unto me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own 
house, for thou shalt feed a prophet of the Lord; yea, a 
holy man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has fasted 
many days because of the sins of this people, and ht is an 
hungered, and thou shalt receive him into thy house and 
feed him, and he shall blees thee and thy house; and the 
blessing of the Lord shall rest upon thee and thy house. 

And it came to pase that I obeyed the voice of the angel, 
and returned towards my house. And as I was going 
thither, I found the man whom the angel said unto me, 
thou shalt receive into thy house; and behold it was this 
same man who has been speaking unto you concerning the 
things of God. And the angel said unto me, he is a holy 
man; wherefore I know he is a holy man, because it was 
said by an angel of God. And again, I know that the 
things whereof he hath testified are true; for behold, 1 say 
unto you, that as the Lord liveth, even so he has gent his 
angel to make these things manifest unto me; and this he 
has done while this Alma hath dwelt at my house; for be- 
hold, he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me, and 
my women, and my children, and my father, and my kins- 
folks; yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed, and the 
blessing of the Lord hath rested upon us according to the 
words which he spake. 

And now when Amulek had gpoken these words, the 
people began to be astonished, seeing there was more than 
one witness who testified ef the things whereof they were 
accused, and also of the things which ‘were to come, ac- 
cording to the spirit of propheey which was in them; nev- 
ertheless, there were some among them who thought ta 
question them, that by their cunning devices they might 
catch them in their words, that they might find witness 
against them, that they might deliver them to the judges, 
that they might be judged according to the law, and that 


244 BOOK OF ALMA. 


they might be slain or cast into prison, according to the 
crime which they could make appear, or witness against 
them. Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, 
who were lawyers, who were hired or appointed by the 
people to admtnister the law at their times of trials, or at 
the trials of the crimes of the people, before the judges, 
Now these lawyers were Icarned in all the arts and cun- 
ning of the pedple; and this was to enable them that 
they might be skilful in their profession. And it came to 
pass that they began to question Amulek, that thereby 
they might make him cross his words, or contradict the 
words which he should speak. Now they knew not that 
Amulek could know of theirdesigns. But it came to pass 
as they began to question him, he perceived their thoughts, 
and he said unto them, O ye wicked and perverse genera- 
tion; ye lawyers and hypocrites; for ye are laying the 
foundations of the devi¥; for ye are laying trapsand snareg 
to catch the holy ones of God; ye are Jaying plans to per- 
vert the ways of the righteous, and to bring down the wrath 
of God upon your heads, even to the utter destruction of 
this people; yea, well did Mosiah say, who was our last 
king, when he was about to deliver up the kingdom, hav- 
ing no one to confer it upon, causing that this people should 
be governed by their own voices; yea, well did he say, 
that if the time should come that the voice of this people 
rhould choose iniquity; that is, if the time should come 
that this‘ people should fall into transgression, they would 
be ripe for destruction. And nowd say unto you, that well 
doth the Lord judge of your iniquities; well doth he cry 
unto this people, by the voice of his angels, repent ye, re- 
pent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Yea, well 

oth he cry, by the voice of his angels, that I will come 
down among my people, with equity and justice in my 
bands. Yea, and I say unto you, that if it were not for the 
prayers of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye 
would even now be visited with utter destruction; yet it 
would not be by flood, as.were the people in the days of 
Noah, but it would be by famine, and by pestilence, and 
the sword. But it is by the prayers of the righteous that 
ye are spared; now therefore if ye will cast out the right- 


eous from among you, then will not the Lord stay hishand, 
but in his fierce anger he will come out against you; then 


ye shall be amitten by famine, and by pestilence, and by 
the sword; and the time is soon at hand, except ye repent. 
And now it came to pass that tht people were more angry 
with Amulek, and they cried out saying: this man dot 
revile against our laws, which are just, and our wise law- 


BOOK OF ALMA. R46 


ars whom we have selected. But Amulek stretched forth 
bis hand, and cried the mightier unto them, saying: O ye 
wicked and perverse generation; why hath satan gat such 
great hold upon your hearts? Why will ye yield your- 
selves unto him that he may have power over you, to blind 
your eyes, that ye will not understand the words which are 

poken, according to their truth? For behold, have I tese, 
tified against your law? Ye do not understand; ye say 
that I have spoken against your law; but I have not; but 
I have spoken in fayor of your law, to your condemnation, 
And now behold, I say unto you, that the foundation of 
the destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the 
unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges. — 

` And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken 
these words, the people cried out against him, saying, now 
we know that this man is a child of the devil, for he hath 
lied unto us; for he hath spoken against our law. And now 
he says that he has not spoken against it. Andagain: he 
has reviled against our lawyers, and our judges, &c. And 
it came to pass that the lawyers put it into their hearts that 
they sould: remember these things against him. And there 
was one among them whose name was Zeezrom. Now he 
was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being 
one of the most expert among them, having much business 
to do among the people. Now the object of these lawyers 
was to get gain; and they got gain according to their 


employ. 

Now it wasin the law of Mosiah that every man who was 
a judge of the law, or those who were appointed to be judges 
should receive wages according to the time which they la- 
bored to judge those who were brought before them to be 


judged. 

Now if a man owed another, and he would not pay that 
kere he did owe, he was complained of to the judge; and ` 
e judge executed’ authority, and sent forth officers that 
the man should be brought before hitn; and he judged tha 
man according to the law and the evidences which were 
brought against him, and thus the man was compelled to 
pay that which he owed, or be stripped, or be cast out from 
among the people, as a thief anda robber. And the judge 
teceived for his wages according to his time: a senine of 
gold for a day, or a senum of silver, which is equal tn a s0- 
nine of gold; and this is according to the law which wag. 
riven. Now these are the names Of the different pieces of 
their gold, and of their silver, according to their value. 
And the names are giyen — Nephites; for they did not 


246 Wook OF ALMA. 


reckon after the manner of the Jews who were at Jeram- 
lem: neither did they measure after the manner‘ of the 
Jews, but they altered their reckoning and their measure, 
according to the minds and the circumstances of the peo- 
; ple, in every generation, until the reign of the judges; they 
aving been established by king Mosiah. Now the reck- 
oning is thus: a senine of gold, a seon of gold, a shum of 
gold, and a limnah of gold. A senum of silver, an amnor 
of silver, an ezrom of silver, and an onti of silver. A senum 
of silver was equal toa senine of gold; and either for a 
measure of barley, and also for a measure of every kind of 
grain. Now the amount of a seon of gold was twice the 
value of a senine; and a shum of gold was twice the value 
of a seon; anda limnah of gold was the value of them 
all; and an amnor of silver was as great as two senums; 
and an ezrom of silver was as great as four senums; and 
an onti was as great as them all. Now this is the value of 
the lesser numbers of their reckoning, a shiblon is, half 
of a senum: therefore a shiblon for half a measure of bare 
ley; and a shiblum is a half of a shiblon; anda leah is the 
half of a shiblum. Now this is their number, according to 
their reckoning. Now an antion of gold is equal to three 
shiblons. — 
Now it was for the sole purpose to get gain, because they 
received their wages according to their employ; therefore 
they did stir up the people to riotings, and all manner of 
disturbances and wickedness, that they might have more 
employ; that they might get money according to the suits 
which were brought before them’ therefore they did stir 
up the ‘people against Alma and Amulek. And this Zeez- 
rom began to question Amulek, saying: will ye answer me 
a few questious which I shall ask you? Now Zeezrom was 


.a man who was expert in the devices of the devil, that he 


might — that which was good: therefore he said unto 
Amulek, will ye answer the questions which I shall put 
unto you? And Amulek said unto‘him, yea, if it be ac- 
cording to the spirit of the Lord, which isin me; for I shall 
say nothing which is contrary to the spirit of the Lord. 
And Zėezrom said unto him, behold, here are six onties of 
silver, and all these will I give thee if thou wilt deny the 
existence of a supreme being. Now Amulek said,O thou 
child of hell, why tempt ye me? Knowest thou that the 
righteous yieldeth to no such temptations? Believest thou 
that there is no God? Isay unto you, nay; thou knowest 
that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more than 
him. | And now thou hast lied before God unto me. Thou 
saidst unto me, behold these six onties which are of great 





~ 


BOOK OF ALMA. 247 


worth, I will give unto thee, when thou had it in thy heart 
to retain them from me; and it was only thy desire that I 
should deny the true and living God, that thou mightest 
have cause tọ destroy me. And now behold, for this great 
evil thou shalt have thy reward. And Zeezrom said unto, 
him, thou sayest there is a true and living God? And Am- 
ulek said, yea, there is a true and a living God. Now 
Zeezrom satd, is there more than one God? And he an- 
swereth, no. Now Zeezrom said unto him again, how 
knowest thou these things? And he said an angel hath. 
made them known unto me. And Zeezrom said again, 
who is he that shall come? Is it the son of God? And 
he said unto him, yea. And Zeezrom said again, shall he, 
save his people in their sins? And Amulek answered and 
said unto him, I say unto you he shall not, for it is impos- 
sible for him.to deny his word. ; 
Now Zeezrom said unto the people, see that ye remem- 
ber these things; for he said there is but one God; yet he 
saith that the Son of God shall come, but he shall not 
save his people, as though he had authority to command 
God. Now Amulek saith again unto him, behold thou 
hast lied, for thou sayest that I spake as though I had au- 
thority to command God, because I said he shall not save 
his people in their sins. And I say unto you again, that 
he cannot saye them in their sins; for I cannot deny his 
word, and he hath said that no unclean thing can inherit 
the kingdom of heaven; therefore how can ye be saved, 
except ye inherit the kingdom of heaven? Therefore ye 
cannot be saved in yoursins. Now Zeezrom saith again 
unto him, is the Son of God the very eternal Father? 
And Amulek said unto him, yea, he is the very eternal Fa- 
ther of heaven and of earth, and all things which in them 
is; he isthe beginning and the end, the first and the last; 
and he shall come into the world to redeem his peoples, 
and he shall take upon him the transgressions of those 
who believe on his name; and these are they that shall 
have eternal life, and salvation cometh to none else; there- 
fore the wicked remain as though there had been no re- 
demption made, except it be the loosing of the bands of 
deatli: for behold, the day cometh that all shall rise from 
the dead and stand before God, and be judged according 
to their works. Now there is a death which is called a 
temporal death; and the death of Christ shall loose the 
bands of this temporal death, that all ghall be raised from 
this temporal death; the spirit and the body shall be re- 
united again, in its perfect form; both limb and joint. 
shall be restored to its proper frame, even as we now are 


qy — 


at this time; and we shall be brought to stand before God, 
knowing even as we know now, and have a bright recollec- 
tion of ali our guilt. Now this restoration shall come to all, 
both old and young, both bond and free, both male an 
female, both rhe wicked and the righteous; and even there 
shall not so much as a hair of their heads be lost; but all 
things shall be restored toits perfect frame, as it is now, 
or in the body, and shall be brought and be arraigned be- 
fore the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father, and 
the holy Spirit, which is one eternal God, to be judged ac- 
cording to their works, whether they be good or whether 
they be evil. 

» Now behold I have spoken unto you concerning the 
death of the mortal body, and also concerning the resut- 
rection of the mortal body. I say unto you, that this 
mortal body is raised to an immortal body; ‘that is from 
death; even from the first death, unto life, that they can 
die no more; their spirits uniting with their bodies, never 
_ to be divided; thus the whole becoming spiritual and im- 

mortal, that they can no more see corruption. 

Now when Amulek had finished these words, the peo- 
ple began again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began 
to tremble. And thus ended the words of Amulek, or 
this is all that I have written. 


—— 


CHAPTER IX. 


Now Alma, seeing that the words of Amulek had si- 
lenced Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had caught 
him in his lying and deceiving, to destroy him, and seeing 
that he began to tremble under a consciousntss of his 
guilt, he opened his mouth and began to speak unto him, 
and to establish the words of Amulek, and to explain 
things beyond, orto unfold the scriptures beyond that 
which Amulek had done. Now the words that Alma 
spake unto Zeezrom, were: heard by the people round 
about: for the multitude was great, and he spake on thig 
wise: Now Zeczrom, seeing that thou hast been taken in 
thy lying and craftiness, for thou hast not lied unto men 
only, but thou hast lied unto God; for behold, he knows 
all thy thoughts; and thou seest that thy thoughts are 
made known unto us by his spirit: and thou seest that we 
know that thy plan was a very subtle plan, as to the subtle- 
ty of the devil, for to lie and to deceive this people, that 


' BOOK OF ALMA. 249 


thou mightest set them against us, to revile us and cast 
us out. Now this was a plan of thine adversary, and he 
hath exercised his power in thee. Now I would that ye 
should remember that what I say unto thee, I say unto all. 
And behold, I say.unto you all, that this was a snare of 
the adversary, which he has laid to catch this people, that 
he might bring you into subjection unto him, that he 
might encircle you about with his chains, that he might 
chain.you down to everlasting destruction, according to 
the power of his captivity. l 

Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom be- 
gan to tremble more exceedingly, for he was convinced 
more and more of the power of “Gods aud he was also con- 
vinced that Alma and Amulek had a knowledge of him, 
for he wag convinced that they knew the thoughts and in- 
tents of his heart: for power was given unto them that 
they might know of these things, according to the spirit 
of prophecy. And Zeezrom began to inquire of them dil- 
gently, that he might know more concerning the kingdom 
of God. And he said unto Alma, what does this mean 
which Amulek hath spoken concerning the resurrection 
of the dead, that all shall rise from the dead, both the just 
and the unjust, and are brought to stand before God, to be 
judged according to their works? And now Alma began 
to expound these things unto him, saying, it is given unto 
many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless they 
are laid under a strict command, that they shall not im- 
part only according to the portion of his word, which he 
doth grant unto the’ children of men; according to the 
heed and diligence which they give unto him; and there» 
fore he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the 
lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden 
his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, 
until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God, 
until they know them in full; and they that will harden 
their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the 
word, until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; 
and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by 
his will down to destruction. Now this is what is meant 
by the chains of hell; and Amulek hath spoken plainly 
concerning death, and being raised from this mortality to 
a state of immortality, and being brought before the bar 
of God, to be judged according to our works. Then if 
our hearts have been hardened, yea, if we have hardened 
our hearts against the word, insomuch that it has not been 
found in us, then will our state be awful, for then we shall 
be condemned: for our words will condemn us, yea, all 


250 BOOK OF ALMA. 
our works will condemn us; we shall pot be found spotless: 
‘and our thoughts will also condemn us; and in this ewfnl 
state, we shall not dare look up to our God; and we would 
fain be gladif we could command the rocksand the moun- 
tains to fall‘upon us, to hide us from his presence. But this 
cannot be: we must come forth and stand before him in 
his glory, and in his power, and in his might, majesty and 
dominion, and acknowledge to our everlasting shame, that 
ell his judgments are just: that heis just in all his works, 
and that he is merciful unto the children of men, and that 
he has all power to save every man that believeth on his 
name, and bringeth forth fruit meet for repentance. 

And now behold I say unto you, then cometh:a death, 
even a second death, which is a spiritual death; then isa 
time that whosoever dieth: in‘his sins, as to a temporal 
death, shall also die a spiritual death: yea, he shall die as 
to things pertaining unto righteousness; then is the time 
when their torments shall be asa Jake of fire and brim- 
stone, whose flames ascendeth up forever and ever; and 
then is the time that they shall be chained down to an 
everlasting destruction, according to the power and cap- 
tivity of satan: he having subjected them according to 
his will.. Then I say unto you, they stall be as though 
there had been no redemption made; for they cannot be 
redeemed according to God’s justice; and they cannot die, 
seeing there is no more corruption. 

Now it came to pass that when Alma had made an end 
of speaking these words, the people began to be more as 
tonished; but there was one Antionah, who was a chief 
ruler among them, come forth and said unto him, what is 
this that thou hast said, that man should: rise from the 
dead artd be changed from this mortal to an immortal state, 
that the soul can never die? What does the scripture 
mean, which saith that God placed cherubims and a flam- 
ing sword on the east of the garden of Eden, lest our first 
parents should enter and partake of the fruit of the tree 
of life, and live forever? And thus we see that there was 
no possible chance that they should live forever. Now 
Alma said unto him, this is the thing which I was about 
to explain. Now we see that Adam did fall by the par- 
taking of the forbidden fruit, according to the word of 
God; and thus wé see, that by his fall, all mankind be~ 
came a lost and a fallen people. And now behold, I say 
unto you, that if it had been possible for Adam to have 
partaken of the fruit of the tree of life at that time, there 
would have been no death, and the word would have been 
yoid, making God a liar: for he said, if thou eat, thou 


BOOK OF ALMA, O51 


diall surely die. And we see that death comes upon man- 
kind, yea, the death which has been spoken of by Amu- 
lek, which is the temporal death; nevertheless there wag 
a space granted upto man, in which he might repent; there- 
fore this life became a probationary state; a time to prepare 
to meet God; atime to prepare for that endless state, which 
has been spoken of by us, which is after the resurrection 
of the dead. Now if it had not been for the plan of re- 
demptien, which was laid from the foundation of the world, 
there could have been no resurrection of the dead; but 
there was a plan of redemption laid, which shall bring to 
pass the résurrection of the dead, of which'has been spek- 
en, And now behold, if it were possible that our first 
pacon could have went forth and partaken of the tree of 
ife, they would have been forever miserable, having no 
eparatory state; and thus the plan of redemption would 
ave been frustrated, and the word of God would have been 
void, taking none effect. But behold, it was not so; but 
it was appointed unto man that they must die; and after 
death, they must come to judgment; even that same judg- 
ment of which we have spoken, which is the end. And 
after God had appointed that these things should come un- 
to man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man 
should know concerning the things whereof he had ap- 
pointed unto them; therefore he sent angels to converse 
with them, who caused men to behold of his glory. And 
they began from that time forth to call on his name; there- 
fore God conversed with men, and made known unto them 
the plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the, 
foundation of the world; and thishe made known unto 
them according to their faith and repentance, and their 
holy works; whereforo he gave commandments unto men, 
they having first trapsgressed the first commandments us 
to things which were temporal, and becoming as gods, 
knowing good from evil, placing themselves in a state to 
act, or -being placed in a state to act according to their 
wills and pleasures, whether to do evil or to do good; there- 
fore God gave unto them commandments, after having 
made known unto them the plan of redemption, that they 
should not do evil, the penalty thereof being a second death, 
which was on everlasting death as to things pertaining unto 
tighteousness; for on such the plan of redemption could 
have no power, for the works of justice could not be de- 
stroyed, according to the supreme goodness of God. But 
God did call on man, in the name of his Son, (this being 
the plan of redemption which was iaid,) saying: if ye wi 
repent, and harden not your hearts, then will I have mercy 


252 BOOK OF ALMA. 


upon you, throngh mine only begotten San; therefore, 
whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart, he shall 
have claim on mercy through mine only begotten Son, unto 
a remission of his sins;,and these shall enter-into my rest. 
,And whosoever will harden his heart, and will do iniquity, 
jbehold, I swear in my wrath that he shall not enter into 
my rest. And now my brethren, behold I say unto you, 
that if ye will harden your hearts, ye shall not enter into 
the rest of the Lord; therefore your iniquity provoketh him, 
that he sendeth down his wrath upon you as in the first 
provocation, gen according to his word in the last provo- 
cation, as well as the first, to the everlasting destruction of 
your souls; therefore, according to his word, unto the last 
death, as well as the first. ` 
And now my brethren, seeing we kriow these things, 
and they are true, let us repent, and harden not our hearts, 
that we provoke not the Lord our God to pull down his 
wrath ‘upon us in these his second commandments which 
he has given unto us; but let us enter into the rést of God, 
which is prepared according tohis word. And again: my 
brethren, E would cite your minds forward to the time when 
the Lord God gave these commandments unto his children; 
and I would that ye should remember that the Lord ‘God 
ordained priests, after his holy order, which was after the 
order of his Son, to teach these things unto the people; 
and those priests were ordained after the order of his Son, 
in a manner that thereby the people might know in what 
manner to look forward to his Son for redemption. And 
this is the manner after which they were ordained: being 
called and prepared from the foundation of the world, ac- 
cording to the foreknowledge of God, on account of their 
exceeding faith and good works; in the first place being 
left to choose good or evil; therefore they having chosen 
good, and exercising exceeding great faith, are called with 
a holy calling, yea, with that holy calling which was pre- 
pared with, and according to, a preparatory redemption for 
such; and thus they have been called to this holy ‘calling 
on account of their faith, while others would reject the 
spirit of God on account of the hardness of their hearts and 
blindness of their minds, while, if it had not been for this, 
they might had‘as great privilege as their brethren. Orin 
fine: in the first place they were on the same standing 
with their brethren; thus this hoty calling being prepared 
from the foundation of the world for such as would not 
harden their hearts, being in and through the atonement 
of the only begotten Son, who was prepared; and thus 
being called by this holy calling, and ordained unto the 


BOOK OF ALMA 963 


high priesthood of the holy order of God, to teach hiscoms 
mandments unto the children of men, that they also might 
enter into his rest, this high priesthood being after the or- 
der of his Sou, which order was from the foundation of the 
world: or in other words, being without beginning of days 
or end of years, being prepared from eternity to ali eternity, 
according to his foreknowledge of all things. Now they 
were ordained after this manner: Being called with a 
holy calling, and ordained with a holy ordinance, and tak- 
ing upon them the high priesthood of the holy order, which 
ling, and ordinance, and high priesthood, is without 
beginning or énd; thus they become high priests forever, 
after the order of the Son, the only begotten of the Father, 
who is without beginning of days or end of years, who is 
fall of grace, equity and truth. And thus itis, Amen. 


a> Cras 


CHAPTER X. 


Now as I said concerning the holy order of this high 
priesthood: there were many who were ordained and be- 
came high priests of God; and it was on account of their 
exceeding faith and repentance, and their righteousness 
before God, they choosing to repent and work righteous- 
ness, rather than to perish; therefore they were called af- 
ter this holy order, and were sanctified, and their garments 
were washed white, through the blood of the Lamb. Now 
they, after being sanctified by the Holy Ghost, having their 
garments made white, being pure and spotless before God, 
could not look upon ein, save it were with abhorrence; and 
there were many, excecding great many, who wera made 
pure, and entered into the rest of the Lord theirGod. And 
now, my brethren, I would that yeshould humble yourselves 
before God, and bring forth fruit meet for repentance, that _ 
ye may aleo enter into that rest; yeu, humble yourselves 
even as the people in the days of Melchizedek, who was 
also a high priest after this s¢me order which I have spo- 
ken, who aleo took upon him the high priesthood forever. 
And it was this same Melchizedek to whom Abraham’ 
paid tithes: yea, evon our father Abraham paid tithes of 
one tenth part of all he possessed. Now these ordinances 
were given after this manner, that thereby the people might 
look forward on the Son of God, it being a type of hia or- 
der, or it being his order; — thie, that they might look 


254 BOOK.OF ALMA: 


forward to him fora remission of their sits, that they might 
enter into the rest of the Lord. 

Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land of Sa- 
lem; and his people had waxed strong in iniquity and 
abominations; yea, they had all gone astray; they were 
full of all manner of wickedness; but Melchizedek having 
exercised mighty faith, and received the office of the high 
priesthood, according to. the holy order of God, did preach 
repertance unto his people. And behold, they did repent; 
and Melchizedek did establish peace in the land in his 
days; therefore he was called the prince of peace, for he 
was the king of Salem; and he did reign under his father. 
Now there were many before him, and also. there were 
many afterwards, but none were greater; therefore of him 
they have more particularly made mention. Now I need 
not rehearse the matter; what I have said, may suffice. 
Behold, the scriptures are before you; if ye will wrest 
them it shall be to your own destruction. 

And now it came to pass that when Alma had said thess 
words unto them, he stretched forth his hand unto them 
and cried with a mighty voice, saying, now is the time to 
repent, for the day of salvation draweth nigh; yea, and 
the voice of the Lord, by the mouth of angels, doth. 
declare it, unto all nations: yea, doth.declare it, that 
they may have gled tidings of great joy; yea, and he doth 
sound these glad tidings among all his people, yea, even to 
them that are scattered abroad upon the face of the earth; 
wherefore they have come unto us. And they are made 
known unto usin plain terms, that we may understand, 
that we cannot err; and this because of our being wan- 
derers ina strange land: therefore we are thus highly favor- 
ed, for we have these glad tidings declared. unto us in all 
parts ofour vineyard. For behold, angels are declaring it 
unto many at this time in our land; and this is for the pur- 
pose of preparing the hearts of the children of men to re- 
ceive his word, at the time of his coming in his glory. 
‘And now we only wait to hear the joyful news declared 
unto us by the mouth of angels, of his coming; for the 
time cometh, we know not how soon. Would to God that 
it might be in my day; but let it be sooner or later, ia it I 
will rejoice. And it shall be made known unto just and 
holy men, by the mouth of angels, at the time of his com- 
ing, that the words of our fathers may be fulfilled, aceord- 
ing to that which they have spoken concerning him, which 
was according to the spirit of prophecy which was in them. 

And now my brethren, I wish from the inmoet part of 
my heart, yea, with great anxiety, even unto pain, that ye 


BOOK OF ABHA, 258 


would hearken unto my words, and east off your sins, and 
not procrastinate the day of your repentance; but that ye 
would: humble yourselves before the Lord, and call on his 
holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may 
not be tempted above that which ye can bear, and thus be 
led by the Holy Spirit, becoming humble, meek, submis- 
sive, patient, full of love and all long suffering; having 
faith on the Lord; having a hope that ye shall receive eter- 
nal life; having the love of God always in your hearts, that 
ye may be lifted up at the last day, and enter into his rest; 
and may the Lord grant unto you repentance, that ye may 
not bring down his wrath upon you, that ye may not be 
bound down by the chains of hell, that ye may not suffer 
the second death. And Alma spake many more words unto 
the people, which are not written in this book. 

And it came to pass after he had made an end of speak- 
ing unto the people, many of them did believe on his words, 
and began to repent, and to search the scriptures; but the 
more part of them were desirous that they might destroy 
Alma and Amulek; for they were angry with Alma, be- 
cause of the plainness of his words unto Zeezrom; and they 
aiso said that Amulek had lied unto them, and had reviled 
against their law, and also against their lawyers and judg- 
es. And they were also angry with Alma and Amulek; 
and because they had testified so plainly against their wick- 
edness, they sought to put them away privily. But it came 
to pass that they did not; but they took them and bound 
them with strong cords, and took them before the, chief 
judge of the land. And the people went forth and wit- 
essed against them, testifying that they had reviled against 
the law, and their lawyers and judges of the land, and also 
of all the people that were in the land; and also testified 
that there was but one God, and that he should send his 
Son among the people, but he should not save them; and 
many such things did the people testify against Alma and 
Amulek. Now this was done before the chief judge of 
the land. And it came to pass that Zeezrom was astonished - 
at the words which had been spoken; and he also knew 
concerning the blindness of the minds which he had caused 
among the people, by his lying words; and his soul began 
to be harrowed up, under a conseiousness of his own guilt; 
yea, he began to be encircled about by the pains of hell. 

And it came to pass'that he began to cry unto the peo- 
ple, saying: Behold, I am guilty, and these men are spot- 
less before God. And he began to plead for them, from 
that time forth; but they reviled him, saying: Art thou 
also possessed with the devil? And they spit apoa him, 


258 ROOK .OF ALMA. 


and cast him out from smong them, and also all those who 
believed in the words which had been spoken by Alma and 
Amulek; and they cast theni out, and sent men to cast 
stones at them. And they brought their wives and chil- 
dren together, and whosoever believed or had been taught 
to believe in the word of God, they caused that they should 
‘eo cast into the fire; and they also brought forth their re- 
cords, which contained the holy scriptures, and cast them 
into the fire also, that they might be burned and destroyed 
by fire. ° 

oe it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, 
and carried them forth to the place of martyrdom, that they 
might witness the destruction of those who were consumed 
by fire. And when Amulek‘saw tho pains of the women 
and childrer who were consuming in.the fire, he was alaọ 
pained; and he said unto Alma, how can we witness this 
awful scene? Therefore let us stretch forth our hands, 
and exercise the power of God which is in us, and save 
them from the flames. But Alma said unto him, the spirit 
eonstraineth me that I must not stretch forth mine hand; 
for behold, the Lord receiveth them up unto himeelf, in 
glory; and he doth suffer that they may do this thing, or 
that the people may do this thing unto them, according to 
the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments which he 
shall exercise upon them in his wrath, may be just; and 
the blood of the innocent shall stand as a witness against 
them, yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day. 
Now Amulek gaid unto Alma, behold, perhaps they will 
burn us also; And Alma said, be it according to the 


will of the Lord. But behold, our work isnot finished; 


therefore they burn us not. 

Now it came to pass that when the bedica of those who 
had been cast into the fire, were consumed, and also the 
records which were cast in with them, the chief judge of 
the land came and stood before Alma and Amulek, as they 
were bound; and he smote them with his hand upon their 
cheeks, and said unto them, after what ye have seen, will 
ye preach again unto this people, that they shall be cast into 
a lake of fire and brimstane? Behold, ye see that ye had 
not power to save those who hed been cast into the fire; 
neither has God saved them, because they were of thy faith. 
And the judge smote them again upon their cheeks, and 
asked, what say ye for yourgelves? Now this judge was 
after the order and faith of Nehor, who slew Gideon. And 
it came to pass that Alma and Almulek answered him no- 
thing; and hesmote them again, and delivered them tothe 
pfficers to be cast into- prison. And when they had been 


BOOK OF ALMA. 257 


cast into prison three days, there came many lawyers, and 
judges, and priests, and teachers, who were of the profes- 
sion of Nehor; and they came in unto the’ prison to see 
them, and they questioned them about many words; but 
they answered them nothing. And it came to pass that 
the judge stood before them, and said, why do ye not an- 
swer the words of this people? Know ye not that I have 
power to deliver ye up unto the flames? -And he com- 
manded them to speak: but they answered nothing. 

And it came to pass that they departed and went their 
ways, but came again on the morrow; and the judge also 
smote them again on their cheeks. And many came forth 
also, and smote them, saying, will ye stand again, and 
judge this people, and condemn our law? If ye have such’ 
great power, why do ye not deliver yourselves? And man 
euch things did they say unto them, gnashing their tect 
upon them, and spitting upon them, and saying, how shail 
we look when wc are damned? And many such things, 
yea, all mannet of such things did they say unto them; 
and thus they did mock them, for many days. And they 
did withhold food from them, that they might hunger, and 
water, that they might thirst; and they also did take from 
them their clothes, that they were naked; and thus they 
were bound with strong cords, and ‘confined in prison. 

And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for me- 
ny days, (and it was on the twelfth day, in the tenth month, 
in the tenth year of the reign of tho Judges over the people 
of Nephi.) that the chief judge over the land of Ammoni- 
hah, and many of their teachers and their lawyers, went 
in unto the prison where Alma and Amulek were bound 
with cords.’ And the chief judge stood before them, and 
smote them again, and said unto them, if ye have the pow- 
erof God, deliver yourselves from these bands, and then 
we will believe that the Lord will destroy this people ac- 
cording to your words. And it came to pass that they all 
went forth and smote them, saying the same words, even 
until the last; and when the last had spoken unto them, 
the power of God was upon Alma and Amulek, and they 
arose and stood upon their feet; and Alma cried, saying, 
how long shall we suffer these great afflictions, O Lord? 
O Lord, give us strength according to our faith which 1s in 
Christ, even unto deliverance: and they break the cords 
with which they were bound; and when the people saw 
this, they began to fice, for the fear of destruction had come 
upon them. f 

And it came to pass — great was their fear, that 


~ 


258 BOOK OF ALMA. 


they fell to the earth, and did not obtain the outer door of 

the prison; and the earth shook mightily, and the walls of 

the prison were rent in twuin, so that they fell to the earth; 
and the chief judge, and the lawyers, and priests, and 
teachers, who sinote upon Alma and Amulek, were slain 
by the fall thereof. And Almaand Amulek came forth 
out of the prison, and they were not hurt; forthe Lord had 
granted unto them’ power, according to their faith which 
was in Christ. And they straightway came forth out of 
the prison; and they were loosed from their bands; and the 
prison had fallen to the earth, and every soul who was 
within the walls thereof, save it were Alma and Amulek, 
were slain; and they straightway eame forth into the city. 
Now the people having heard a great noise, came running 
together by multitudes, to know ‘the cause of it; and when 
they saw Alma and Amulek coming forth out of the prison, 
and the walle thereof had fallen to the earth, they were 
struck with great fear, and fled from the presence of Alma 
and Amulek, even asa goat fleeth with her young from 
two lions; and thus they did fice from the presence of Al- 
ma and Amulek. 

And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were com- 
manded to depart out of that city; and they departed, and 
came out even into the land of Sidom; and behold, there 
they found all the people who had departed out of the land 
of Ammonihah, who had been cast out and stoned, because 
they believed in the words of Alma. And they related 
unto them all that had happened unto their wives and chil- 
dren, and also concerning themselves, and of their power 
of deliverance. And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with 
a burning fever, which was caused by the great tribulations 
of his mind, on account of his wickedness, for he supposed 
. that Alma and Amulek were no more; and he supposed 
that they had been slain, by the cause of hisiniquity. And 
this great sin, and his many other sins, did harrow up his 
mind, until it,did become exceeding sore, having no deliv- 
erance; therefore he began to be scorched with a burning 
heat. Now when he heard that Alma and Amulek were 
in the land of Sidom, his heart began to take courage; an 
he sent a message immediately unto them, desiring them 
to come unto him. ' 

_ And it came to pass that they went immediately, obey- 
ing the message which he had sent unto them; and they 
went in unto the house unto Zeezrom: and they found 
him upon his bed sick, being very low with a burnin 
fever; and his mind also was exceeding sore, because 0 


: BOOK ÒF ALMA. 250" 
his iniquities; and when he saw them, he stretched forth 
his hand, and besought them that they would heal him. 

And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him 
by the hand, believest thou in the power ef Christ unto 
salvation? And he answered and said, yea, I believe all 
the words that thou hast taught. And Alma said, if thou 
believest in the redemption of Christ, thou canst be healed. 
And he said, yea, I believe according to thy words. And 
then Alma cried unto the Lord, saying, O Lort our God, 
have mercy on this man, and heal him according to his faith 
which isin Christ. And when Alma had said these words 
Zeezrom leaped upon his feet, and began to walk; and 
this was done to the great astonishment of all the people; 
and the knowledge of this went forth throughout all the 
land of Sidom. And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the 
Lord; and he began from that time forth to preach un- 
to the people. And Alma established a church in the 
land of Sidpm, and consecrated priests and teachers in the 
land, to baptize unto the Lord whosoever were desirous to 
be baptized. 

And it came to pass that they were many; for they did 
flock in from all the region round about Sidom, and were 

. baptized; but as to the people that were in the land of Am- 
monihah, they yet remained a hard hearted and astiffneck- 
ed people; and they repented not of their sins, ascribing 
all the power of Alma and Amulek to the deyil: for they 
were of the profession of Nehor, and did not believe in the 
the repentance of their sins. 

And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek 
having forsaken all his gold, and silver, and his precious 
things, which were in the Jand of Ammonihah, for the 
word of God, he being rejected by those who were once his 
friends, and also by his tather and his kindred; therefore, 
after Alma having established the church at Sidom, seeing 
a great check, yea, seeing that the people were checked as 
to the pride of their hearts, and began to humble themselves 
before God, and began to assemble themselves together at 
their sanctuaries to worship God before the altar, watching 
and praying continually, that they might be delivered from 
satan, and from death, and from destruction: Now as I said, 
Alma having seen all these things, therefore- he took Amu- 
lek and came over to the land of Zarahemla, and took him to 
his own house, and did administer unto him in his tribula- 
tions, and strengthened him inthe Lord. And thus ended 
ne tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of 

ephi. l 


200 BOOK OF ALMA. 
CHAPTER XI, 


Anp it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign 
of the judges aver the people of Nephi, on the fifth day of 
the second month, there having been much peace in the 
land of Zarahemla; there having been no wars nor conten- 
tions for a certain number of years: even until the fifth 
day of the second month, in the eleventh year, there was 
a cry of war heard throughout the land; for behold, the 
armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the wilderness 
side, into the borders of the land, even into the city of 
———— and began to slay the people, and destroy 
the city. 

Aad now it came to pass before the Nephites could raise 
a sufficient army to drive them out of the land, they had 
destroyed the people who were in city of Ammonihah, and 
also some around the borders of Noah, and taking others 
captive into the wilderness. . 

ow it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to 
obtain those who had been carried away captive into the 
wilderness; therefore he that. had been appointed chief 
captain over the armies of the Nephites, (and his name was 
Zoram, and hc had two sons, Lehi and Aha:) Now Zoram 
and his two sons, knowing that Alma was high priest over 
the church, and having heard that he had the spirit of pro- 
phecy, therefore they went unto him and desired of him 
to know whether the Lord would that they should go into 
the wilderness in scarch of their brethren, who had been 
taken captive by the Lamanites. 

And it came to pass that Alma inquired of the Lord con- 
ceming the matter. And Alma returned and eaid unto 
them, hehold the Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in 
the south wilderness, away up beyond the- borders of the 
land of Manti. And behold there shall ye meet them, on 
the east of the river Sidon and there the Lord will deliver 
unto thee thy brethren who have been taken captive by 
the Lamanites. . 

And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed ovet 
the river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away be- 
yond the borders of Manti, into the south wilderness, which 
was on the east side of the river Sidon. And they came upor 
the armies of tHe Lamanites, and the Lamanites were scat- 
tered and driven into the wilderness; tbat they took theirt 
brethren who had been taken captive by the Lamanites, and 
there was not one soul of them who had been lost, that were 
taken captive, And they were brought by their brethren 
to possees their own lands. And thus ended the elev- 


BOK OF alas: 208 


enth year of the judges, the Lamonites having been driven 
out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah were de- 
stroyed; yea, every living soul of the Ammonibahits were 
destroyed, and also their great city, which they said God 
could not destroy, because of its-greatness. But behold, 
in one day it was left desolate; and the carcases were man- 

led by dogs and wild beasts of the wilderness; neverthe- 

ess, after many days, their dead bodies were heaped up 
upon the face of the earth, and they were covered with a 
shallow covering. And now so great was the scent there- 
of, that the people did not go in to possess the land of Am- 
monihah for many years. And it was called desola- 
tion of Nehors; for they were of the profession of Nehor, 
who were slain; and their lands remained desolate. And 
the Lamanites did not come again to war against the 
Nephites until the fourteenth year of the reign of tho 
judges over the people of Nephi. And thus for three 
years did the people of Nephi have continual peace in 
all the land. . 

Aad Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance 
to the people in their temples, and in their sanctuaries, and 
also in their synagogues, which were built after the man- 
ner of the Jews. And as many as would hear their words, 
unto them they did impart the word of God, witnout any 
respect of persons, continually. And thus did Alma and 
Amulek go forth, and also many more who had been chos- 
en for the work, to preach the word throughout all the land. 
And the establishment of the church became general 
throughout the land, in all the zegion round about, among 
all the people of the Nephites.. 

And there was no inequality among them, the Lord did 
pour oat his spirit on-all the face of the land, to prepare 
the minds of the children of men, or to prepare their hearts 
to receive the word which should be taught among them 
at the time of his coming, that they might not be hardened 
against the word, that they might not be unbelieving, and 
go on to destruction, but that they might receive the word 
with joy, and asa branch be grafted into the true vine, that 
they might enter into the rest of the Lord their God. 

Now those priests who did go forth among the people, 
did preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and envyinga, 
and strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing, 
plundering, murdering, committing adultery, and all man- 
ner of lasciviousness, crying that these things ought not 
Bo to be; holing forth things which must shortly come; 
yeas holding forth the coming of the Son of God, his suf- 
forings and death, and alao the reauxtection of the dead. 


268 BOOK OF ALMp. 


And many of the people did inquire concerniag the place 
where the Son of God should come; and they were 
taught that he.would appear unto them ùfter his. resurrec- 
tion; and this the people did hear with great joy and glad- 
ness, And now aker the church having been established 
throughoutall theland, having got the victory over the devil, 
and the word of God being preached in ite purity in all 
the land; and the Lord pouring out his blessings upon 
the people; thus ended the fourteenth year of the reign of 
the Judges, over the people of Nephi. 


—— | 
CHAPTER XII. 


An account of the sons of Mosiah, who rejected their rights 
to ay tly fer the word of God, and went to the 
land of Nephi, to preach to the Lamanites. Their suf- 
Serings and deliverance, according to the record of Alma. 


AND now it came to pass-that as Alma was journeyin 
from the land of Gideon, southward away to the land o 
Manti, behold, to his astonishment, he met with the sons 
of Mosiah, journeying towards the land of Zarahemla, 
Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the 
angel first appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice 
exceedingly, to see his brethren; and what added more to 
his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and 
they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for 
they were men ofa sound understanding, and they had 
searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know 
the word of God. Butthisisnot all: they had given them- 
selves to much prayer, and fasting, therefore they had the 
apii of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when 
they taught, they taught with power and authority of God. 
And they had been teaching the word of God for the space 
of fourteen years, among the Lamanites, having had much 
success in bringing many to the knowledge of the truth; 
yea, by the power of their words, many were brought be- 
fore the altar of God, to call on his name, and confess their 
sins before him. Now these are the cireumstances which 
attended them in their journeyings, for they had many af- 
flictions; they did suffer much, both in body and in mind; 
such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and also much labor in 
the spirit. Now these were their journeyings: Having ta- 
ken leave of their father Mosiah, in the first year of the reign 


a — * — 


BOOK OF ALMA. M 


of.the judges; having refused the kingdom which their 
father was desirous to confer upon them; and also this was 
the minds of the people; nevertheless they departed out of 
the land of Zarahemla, and took their' swords, and their 
spears,and their bows, and their arrows, and their slings; 
and this they did that they might provide food for them- 
selves while in the wilderness: and thus they departed into 
the wilderness, with their numbers which thay had select- 
ed, to go up to the land of Nephi, to preach the word of 
God unto the Lamanites. 

And it came to pass that they journeyed many days in 
the wilderness, and they fasted much, that the Lord would 
grant unto them a portion of his spirit to go with them, and 
abide with them, that they might be an instrument in the 
hands of God, to bring, if it were possible, their brethren, 
the Lamanites, tothe knowledge of thetruth; tothe know- 
ledge of the bageness of the traditions of their fathers, which 
were not correct. l 

And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them With 
his spirit, and sgid unto them, be comforted; and they 
were comforted. And the Lord said unto them also, go 
forth among the Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my 
word; yet ye shall be patient in long suffering and afflic- 
tions, Bac ye may shew forth good examples unto them in 
me, and I will make an instrument of thee in my hands, 
unto the salvation of many souls. | 

And it came to pass that the hearts of the sons of Mo- 
siah, and also those who were with them, took — 
to go forth unto the Lamanites, to declare unto them the 
word of God. 

And it came to pass when they had arrived in the bor- 
ders of the land of the Lamanites, that they separated them- 
selves, and departed one from another, trusting in the Lord, 
that they should meet again at the close of their harvest: 
for they supposed that great was the work which they had 
undertaken. And assuredly it was great, for they had 
undertaken to preach the word of God to a wild, and a har- 
dened, and a ferocious people; a people who delighted in 
murdering the Nephites, and robbing, and plunderin 
them; and their hearts were set upon riches, or upon gold, 
and eilver, and precious stones; yet they sought to obtain 
these things by murdering and plundering, that they might 
not labor for them with their own hands; thus they were 
a very indolent people, many of whom did worship idols, 
and the curse of God had fallen upon them because of the 
traditions of their fathers; notwithstanding, the promises 
of the Lord were extended unto them, on the conditions 


364 Soot oF sma. 


\ of repentance; therefore this was the cause for which the 
sons of Mosiah hed undertaken the work, that perhaps 
they might bring them unto repentance; that perhaps they 
might bring them to know of the plan of redemption: 
therefore they separated themselves one from another, and 
‘went forth among them every man alone, according to the 
word and power of God, which was given unto him.. 
Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather he 
did administer unto them; and he departed from them, 
after having blessed them according to their several sta- 
tions, having imparted the word of God unto them, or 
administered unto them before his departure; and thus 
they took their several jouners throughout the land. 
And Ammon went to the land of Ishmael, the land being 
éalled after the sons of Ishmael, who also became Lama- 
nites. And as Ammon entered the land of Ishmael, the 
Lamanites took him and bound him, as was their custom 
to bind all the Nephites who fell into their hands, and 
carry them before the king; and thus it was left to the 
pleasure of the king to slay them, or to retain them in 
captivity, or to east them into prison, or to cast them out 
of his land, according to his will and pleasure; and thus 
Ammon wae carried before the king who was over the 
land of Ishmael; and his name was Lamoni; and h® was a 
descendant of Ishmael. And the king inquired of Am- 
mon if it were his desire to dwell in the land among the 
Lamanites, or among his people? And Ammon said unto 
him, yea, I desire to dwell among this people fot‘a time; 
yea, and perhaps until the day I die. 
And it came to pass that king’ Lamoni was much 
leased with Ammon, and caused that his bands should 
be loosed tand he would that Ammon should take one of 
his daughters to wife. But Ammon said unto him, nay, 
but I will be thy servant; therefore Ammon became a 
servant to king Lamoni. And it came to pass that he was 
set, among other servants, to watch the flocks of Lamoni, 
according to the custom of the Lamanites. And after he 
had been in the service of the king three days, as he was, 
with the Lamanitish servants, going forth with their 
flocks, to the place of, water, which was called the water 
of Sebus; (and all the Lamanites drive their flocks hither, 
that they may have water;) therefore as Ammon and the 
servants of the king were driving forth their flocks to 
this place of water, behold, a certain number of the Laman- 
ites who had been with their flocks to water, stood and 
scattered the flocks of Ammon, and the servants of the 


~ BOOR oF ALMA: s 


king, and they scattered them insomuch that they fled 
many ways. 

Now the servants of the king began to murmur, saying, 
now the king will slay us, as he has our brethren, because 
their flockstwere scattered by the wickedness of these 
men. And they began to weep exceedingly, saying, be- 
hold our flocks are seattered already. Now they wept 
because of the fear of being slain. Now when Ammon 
saw this, his heart was swollen within him, with joy; for, 
said he, I will shew forth my power unto these my feHow 
servants, or the power which is in me, in — these 
flocks unto the king, that 1 may win the hearts of these 
my fellow servants, that I may lead them to believe in my 
words, Now these were the thoughts ef Ammon, when 
hesaw the afflictions of those whom he termed to be his 
brethren. 

And it came to pags thet he flattered them by his words, 
saying, my brethren be of good cheer and let us go in 
search of the flocks, and we will gather them together, 
and bring them back unto the place of water; and thus we 
will reserve the flocks unto the king, and he will not slay 
us. . 

And it came to pass that they went in search of the 
flocks, and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth 
with much swiftness, and did head the flocks of the king, 
and did gather them together again, to the place of water, 
And those men again stood to seatter their flocks; but 
Ammon said unto his brethren, encircle the flocks round 
about that they flee not: and I go and contend, with these 
men who do scatter our flocks. Therefore they did as 
Ammon commanded them, and he went forth and stood 
to contend with those who stood by the waters of Sebus; 
and they were in number not a few; therefore they did 
aot fear Ammon, for they supposed that one of their men 
could slay him, according to their pleasure, for they knew 
not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would 
deliver his sons out of their hands; neither did they know 
any thing concerning the Lord; therefore they delighted in 

e destruction of their brethren; and for this cause they 
stood to scatter the flocks of the king. 

But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at 
them with his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling 
bones amongst them; and thus he slew a certain number 
of them, insomuch that they began to be astonished at his 
power; nevertheless they were angry because of the slain 
of their brethren, and they — determined that he should 


ae ROOK.OF AGUA: 
Sell; therefore, .weeing that they qauld not hit: him with 
ut 


their stones, they came forth with clubs to slay him. 
behold, every max that lifted his club to smite Ammon, 
he smote off their arms with his sword; for he did with- 
_ stand their blows by smiting their arms with the edge of 
-his sword, insomuch that they-began to be astonished, and 
began to flee before him; yea, and.they were not few in 
number: and he caused them to fice by the strength of his 
arm. Now six of them had fallen by the sling, but he 
slew none save it wes their leader, with his.sword; and he 
ainote off as-many of their arms ag were lifted against him, 
and they were not a few. And when he had driven them 
afar off, he returned, and they watered their flocks and 
returned them to the pasture of the king, and then went 
in unto the king, bearing the arms which had been smote 
off by the sword of Ammon, of those who sought to slay 
him; and they were carried in anto the king, for a testi- 
‘mony of the things which they had done. 
And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his 
servants should stand. forth and testify to all the things 
which they had seen concerning the matter. And whea 
they had all testified to the things which they had seen, 
and he had learned of the faithfulness of Ammon in pre- 
serving his flocks, and algo of his great power in coiitend- 
ing against those who sought to slay him, he was asjon- 
ished exceedingly, and said, surely this is more thana 
-Man. Behold, is not this the Great Spirit who doth send 
‘such great punishments upon this people, because of their 
murders? , And they answerpd the king, aud said, whether 
hc be the Great Spitit or a man, we know not; but this 
much we do know, that he cannot be slain by the ene- 
mies of the king; neither can they scatter the king’s flocks 
when he is with ug, because of his expertness and great 
strength; therefore, we know that he is a friend to the 
king. And now, O king, we do not believe that a man 
has such great power, for we know that he cannot be slain. 
And now when the king heard these worda, he said unto 
‘them, now I know that it is the Great Spirit; and he has 
come down at this.time, to preserve your lives, that I might 
not slay you as I did your brethren. Now this is theGreat 
Spirit of whom our fathers have spoken. Now this was 
the tradition of Lamoni, which he had received from his 
father, that there was a Great Spirit. Notwithstanding 
they believed in a Great Spirit, they supposed that what- 
Soever they did, was right; nevertheless Lamoni began to 
fear exceedingly, with fear lest he had done wrong in 
alaying his servants; for he had slain many of them, be- 


BOOK OF. ALMA. 202 


aise thelr brethremhad stattered their flocks at the place 
of water; and thus because they had had their flocks scate 
tgred, they were slain. Now it was the practice of the 
Lamanites, to stand by the waters of Sebus, to scatter the 
flocks of the people, that thereby they might drive away 
many that were scattered, unto their own land, it being a 
practice of plunder among them. 

And it came tp pass that king Lamoni inquired of hia 
servants, saying where is this man that has such great 
power? And they said unto him, behold, he is feeding 
thy horses. New the king had commanded his servants 
previous to the time of the watering of their flocks, that 
they should prepare his horags and chariots, and conduct 
him forth to the land of Nephi: for there had boen a great 
feast appointed at the land of Nephi, by the father of 
Lamoni, -who was king over all the land. Now when 
king. Lamoni heard that Ammon was preparing his horses 
and his chariots, he was more astoni md because of the 
fhith fulness of Ammon, saying, surely; there has not deere 
any servant among all my servants, that has been so faith- 
ful as this man; for even he doth remember all my com- 
mandments to execute them. Now I surely know that 
this is the Great Spirit; and I would desire him that he 
come in unto me, but I darst rot. 


. And when it came to pass that when Ammon had made — 
ready the horses and the chariots for the king and his sors | 


vants, he went in unto the king, and he saw that tha 
eeufitenance.of the king was changed; therefore he wos 
about’ to rétutn out of ms presence; and one of the king’s 
servants szid unto him, Rabbanah, which is, being inter 
preted, powerful or great king, considering their kings tot 
be powerful; and thus he said unto him, Rabbanah, the: 
king desircth thee to stay; therefore Ammon turned him- 
self unto the king, and said unto him what wilt thou that! 

E should do for thes, O king! And the king’ answered 
him not for the space of an: hour, according to their time, 
forheknew not what he should say unto him. And it 
came to pass that Ammon said unto him again, what 
desirest thou of me? But the king answered him not. 

: And ít came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the 
irit of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts of the! 
king, And he said unto him, is it because thou hast 
keard that I defended thy servants and thy flocks, and: 
slew seven of their brethren with the sling, and with thet 
sword, and smote off the arms of others, in order to defend’ 
thy floeks and thy servants: behold, is it this that causetly 
thy marvelings} Fany unto you, what is. it, thet thy ave, 


a 


. Me BOOK OF ALMA. 


velings are so great? Behold, I ama man, ánd im thy 
servant; therefore, whatsoever thou desirest which isright, 
that will I do. Now when the king had heard these 
words, he marveled again, for he beheld that Ammon 
could discern his thoughts; but notwithstanding this, king 
Lamoni did open his mouth; and said unto him, who art 
thou? Art thou that Great Spirit who knows all things? 
Ammon answered and said unto him, I am not. And the 
king said, how knowest thou the thoughts of my heart? 
Thou mayest speak boldly, and tell me concerning these 
things; and also tell me by what power ye slew and smote 
off the arms of my brethren, that scattered my flocks. 
And now if thou wilt tell me concerning these. things, 
whatsoever thou desirest, I will give unto thee: and. if it 
were needed, I would guard thee with my armies; but I 
know that thou art more powerful than all they: never- 
theless, whatsoever thou desirest of me, I will nt it 
unto thee. Now Ammon being wise, yet h ess, he 
said unto Lamoni, wilt thou hearken unto my words, if I 
tell thee by what power I do these things? and this is the 
thing that I desire of thee. And the king answered him, 
and said, yea, I will believe all thy words; and thus he 
was caught with guile. And Ammon began to speak 
unto him with boldness, and said unto him, believest thou 
that there isa God? And he answered, and said unto 
him, I do not know what that meaneth. And then Am- 
mon said, believest thou that there is a Great Spirit? And 
he said, yea. And Ammon said, thisisGod. And Am- 
mon said unto him again, believest thou that this Great 
Spirit, who is God, created all things, which are in heaven 
and in the earth? And he ssid, yea, I believe that he 
created all things which are in the earth; but I do not 
know the heavens. And Ammon said unto him, the 
heavens is a place where God dwells, and all his holy 
angels. And king Lamoni said, is it above the earth? 
And Ammon said, yea, and he looketh down upon all the 
children of men: and he knows all the thoughts and in- 
tents of the heart: for by his hand were they all created, 
from the beginning. And king Lamoni said, I believe all 
these things which thou hast spoken. Art thou sent from 
God? Ammon said unto him, I am aman; and man in 
the beginning, was created after the image of God, and I 
am called by his Holy Spirit to teach these things unto 
this people, that they may be brought to a knowledge of 
that which is just and true; and a portion of that Spirit 
dwelleth in me, which giveth me knowledge, and also 
power, according to my faith and desires which are in 





BOGE OF AMMA. bs 


God. Now when Ammon hed said these words, he begat 
to the creation of the world, and also the ¢reation of Adam, 
and told him all the things concerning the fall of man, 
and rehearsed and laid before him the records and the. 
holy scriptures of the people, which had been spoken by 
the prophets, even down to the time that their father Lehi 
left Jerusalem; and he also rehearsed unto them (for it 
was unto the king and to hie servants,) all the journeyings 
of their fathers in tho wilderness, and all their sufferings: 
with hunger and thirst, and their travel, &c.: and he also 
rehearsed unto them concerning the rebellions of Laman 
and Lemuel, and the sons of ishmael, yea, all their robel- 
lions did he rélate unto them; and he expounded unto: 
them afl the records and scriptures, from:the time. that. 
Lehi left Jerusalem, down to the present time; but this is: 
not all; for he expounded unto them the plan‘of redemp- 
tion, which was prepared fram the foundation of the worlds 
and he also made known urto them concerning the com- 
ing of Christ; and all the works of the Lord did he make' 
known unto them. ` 
And it came to pass that after he had said all these things, 

and expounded them to the king, that the king believed 
all his words. - And he began to ory unto the Lord, saying: 
O Lord have mercy; aecording to thy abundant merey 
which thou hast had upon the people of Nephi, have upon 
me and my people. And now when he had said this, he 
fell unto the earth, as if he were dead. And it came to 

ass that his servants took him and carried him in unto 

is’ wife, and laid him upon a bed; und he Jay as if he 
were dead, for the space of two days and two nights; and 
his wife, and his sona, and his daughters mourned ovet 
him, after the manner of the Lamanites, greatly iamente 
ing his loss. 

And it-came to pass that after two days and two nightsy 
they were about to teke his body and lay it in a sepulchra 
which they had made for the purpose of burying theis 
dead. Now the queen having heard of the fame of Am- 
mon, therefore she sent and desired that he should coma 
in unto her. And ‘it came to pass that Ammon did as | 
was commanded, and went in unto the queen, and desire 
to know what she would that he should do. And eke said 
Unto him, the servants of my husband have made it known 
unto@e, that thou art a prophet of a holy God, and that 
thou hast ‘power to do many mighty works im his name; 
therefore, if this is the case, I wouid that ye should go in 
and see my husband, for he has been laid upon his bed for 
a One A RJR — poh 3 
a 


v 


20 ROOK OF ALMA. 


the space of two days and two nights; and some say that 
be is not dead, but others say that he is dead, and thet he 
atinketh, and that he ought to be placed in the sepulchre; 
but as for myself, to me he doth not stink. Now this was 
*what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was 
“under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of 
unbelief being cast away from his mind, and the light 
which did light up his mind, which was the light of the 
glory of God, which was a marvelous light of his goodness; 
yea, this light had infused much joy into his soul, the 
cloud of darkness having been dispelled, and that the light 
of everlasting light was lit up in his soul; yea, he knew 
that this had overcome his natural frame, and he was car- 
ried away in God; therefore, what the queen desired of 
him, was his only desire, Therefore he went in to see the 
king, according as the queen had desired him; and he saw 
the king, and he knew that he was not dead. And he 
said unto the queen, he is not dead, but he sleepeth in 
God, and on the morrow ho shall rise again; therefore bury 
him not. And Ammon said unto her, believest thou this? 
And she said unto him, I have had no witness, save thy 
word, and the word of our servants; nevertheless, I be- 
lieve that it shall be according as thou hast said. And 
Ammon said unto her, blessed art thou, because of thy 
exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not 
been such great faith among all the people of the 
Nephites. . 
ind it came to pass that she watched over the bed of 
her husband, from that time, even until that time on the 
morrow which Ammon had appointed that he should rise. 
And it came to pass that he arose, according to the words 
of Ammon; and as he arose, he stretched torth his hand 
unto the woman, and said, blessed be the name of God, 
and blessed art thou; for as sure as thou livest, behold, I 
have seen my Redeemer; and he shall come forth, and be 
‘born of a woman, and he shall redeem all mankind who 
believe og his name. Now when he had said these words, 
his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk again with 
joy: and the queen also sunk down being overpowered 
y the spirit. Now Ammon seeing the spirit of the Lord 
poned out according to his prayers upon the Lamanites, 
is brethren; who had been the cause of so much mourn- 






jng among the Nephites, or among all the peopl 
ecause of their iniquities and their tradition 


fell 
upon his knees, and began to pour out his 59 
and thanksgiving to God; for what he had done for hi 
brethren :-and he was also overpowered with joy; and thus 


4 


ROOK. OF ALMA, Trh 


they all three had sunk to the earth. ' Now when the ser- 
vants of the king had seen that they had fallen, they also 
began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord had come 
upon them also, for it was they who had stood before the 
king, and testified unto him concerning the great power 
ef Ammon. 

And it came to pass that they did call on the name of 
the Lord, in their might, even till they had all fallen to the 
earth, save it were one of the Lamanitish women, whose 
hame was Abish, she having been converted unto the 
Lord for many years, on account of a remarkable vision 
of ‘her father; thus having been converted te the Lord, 
nover had made it known; therefore when she saw that 
all the servants of Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and also. 
her mistress, the queen and the king, and Ammon ley 
prostrate upon the ‘earth, she knew that it was the power 
of God; and supposing that this opportunity, by making 
known unto the people what had — among them, 
that by beholding this scene, it would cause them to be- 
lieve in the power of God, therefore she ran forth from 
house to house, making it known unto the people; and 
they bie ar to assemble themeelves together unto the 
house of the king. And there came a multitude, and to 
their astonishment, they beheld the king, and the queen, 
and their servants, prostrate upon the earth, and they all 
lay there as though they were dead; and they also saw 
Ammon, and behold he was a Nephite. And now the 
people began to murmur among themselves; some saying, 
that it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon 
the king and: his house, because he had suffered that the 
Nephite should remain in the land. But others rebuked 
them, saying, the king hath brought this evil upon his 
house, because he slew his servants who had had their 
flocks scattered at the waters of Sebus; and they were 
also rebuked by those men who had stood at the waters 
of Sebus, and scattered the flocks which belanged to the 
king, for they were angry with Ammon because of the 
number which he had slain of their brethren at the waters 
of Sebus, while defending the flocks of the king. Now 
one of them, whose brother had been slain with theesword 
of Ammon, being exceeding angry with Ammon, drew 
his sword and went forth that he might let it fall upon 
Ammon, to slay him; and as he lifted the sword to smite 
him, behold he fell dead. Now we see that Ammon could 
not be slain, for the Lord had said unto Mosiah, his father,. 
I will spare him, and it shall be unto him according to thy 
faith ; therefore Mosiah trusted him unto the Lord. . 


aft —XXXCE 


And it camé to pass that when the mulũtude doh oli teat 
the man had fallen dead, who lifted the sword to slay Amr 
mon, fear came upon them all, and they durst not put forty 
their hands to touch him, or any of those who had falten; 
end they began to mafvel again among themselves what 
could be the cause of this great power, or what all thess 
things could mean. . | 

And it came to pass that there were many among them, 
who said that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others said 
he was sent by the Great Spirit; but others rebuked them ally 
saying, that he was à monster, who had been sent from the 
Nephites to torment us; and there were some who said that 
Ammon was sent by the Great Spirit to afflict them, be- 
cause of theif iniquities; and that it was the Great Spirit- 
who had always attended the Nephites; who had ever de 
livered them out of their hands; and they said that it was 
this Great Spirit who had destroyed so many of their breth« 
ren, the Lamanites; and thus the contention began. to be 
eXceeding sharp among them. And while they were thuy 
contending, the woman servant who had caused the mul~ 
titude to be gathered together, came; and when she saw 
the contention which was among the multitude, she was 
exceeding sorrowful, even unto tears. . . : 

And it came to pass that she went and took the queer 
by the hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the 
ground: and as soon as she touched her hand, ske arose 
and stood upon her fect, and cried.with a loud voice, say» 
ing, O blessed Jesus, who has saved me from an awful hell! 
U blessed God, have mercy on this people. And when she 
hed said this, she clasped her hada, being filled with joy, 
speaking many words. which were not understood; end 
when she had done this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the 
hand, and behold he arose and stood upon his feet; and he 
immediately; seeing the contention among his people, weat 
forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach thom the 
words which he had heard from the-mouth of Amman; and 
as many-a8 heard his words, believed, and were converted 
unto the Lord. But there were many among them whe 
would not hear‘his words; therefore they went theif way. 

And' it came to pass that when Ammen arose, he also 
administered unto them, and also did all the servants of 
Lamoni; ahd they did all declare unto the people the salf 
same thing; that their hearts had been ehanged; that they 
had no mote desire to do evil. And behold, many did dis 
olare unto the people that they had seen angels, and hed 
conversed with thom; and thus they had told thom things 
of God, and bf hiswightecksnems, And.it. dome to pass thet 


BOOK OF ALMA. 273. 


there were many that did believe in their words; and as 
many as did believe, were tized; and they became a 
righteous poorte, and they did establish a church among 
them; and thus the work of the Lord did commence among 
the Lamanites; thus the Lord. did begin to paur out his 
spirit upon them; and we see that his arm is extended to 

eople who will repent and believe on his name. 

nd it came to pass that when they had established a 
church in that land, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon 
ehould go with him to the land of Nephi, that he might 
show him unto his father. And the voice of the Lord came 
to Ammon, saying, thou shalt not go up to the land of Ne- 
phi, for behold, the king will seek th life; but thou shalt 
go tọ the land of Middoni; for behold, thy brother Aaron, 
and also Muloki and Ammah are in prison. 

Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, 
he gaid upto Lamoni, behold, my brother and brethren are 
in prison at Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them. 
Now Lamoni said unto Ammon, I know, in the strength 
of the Lord, hou canst do all things. But behold, I will 

o with thee to the land of Middoni; for the king of the 

and of Middoni, whose name is Antiomno, isa friend unto 
me; therefore I go to the land of Middoni, that I may flat- 
ter the king of the land; and he will cast thy brethren out 
of prison. Now Lamoni said unto him, who told thee that 
thy brethren were in prison? And Ammon aaid unto him, 
no one hath told me, save it be God: and he said unto me, 
o and deliver thy brethren, for they are in prison in the 
Dnd of Middoni. Now when Lamoni had heard this, he 
caused that his servants should make ready his horses, and 
his chariots. And he said unto Ammon come, I will 
with thee down to the land of Middoni, and there I will 
plead with the king, that he will cast thy brethren out of 
rison. 
j And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni were 
journeying thither, that they met the father of Lamont, 
who was fing over all the land. And behold, the father 
of Lamoni said unto him, why did ye not come to the feast, 
on that great day when I made a feast unto my sons, and 
unto my people? And he also said, whither art thou go- 
ing with this Nephite, who is one of the children of a liar? 
And it came to pass that Lamoni rehearsed unto him whither 

e was going, for he feared to offend him. And he also 
told him all the cause of his tarrying in hia own kingdom, 
that he did not go unto his father, to the feast which he had 
prepared. And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him 
ql these things, behold to his astonishment, his father wag 


His BOOM OF atsi. 


dngry with Atm, andsaid, Lamoni, thou art goingto deliver’ 
these Nephites, who are sons of a liar, Behold, he robbed 
our fathers; and now his children are also come amongstus, 
that they may, by their cunning and their lyings, deceive’ 
ùs, that they again may rob us of our property. Now the 
father of Lumeni commanded him that he should slay Am- 
mon, with the sword. And he aiso commanded him that 
he should not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should 
return with him, to the land of Ishmael. But Lamoni said 
unto him, I will not slay Ammon, neither wili i retarn to 
the land of Ishmael, but I go to the land of Middoni, thas 
F may release the brethren of Ammon, fot I kow that they 
are just men, and holy prophets of the true God. Now when 
his father had heard these words, he was angry with him, 
and he drew his sword that he might smite him to the earth. 
But Ammon stood fort& and said unto him, behold, thou 
shalt not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were better that he 
should fall than thee: for behold, he has repented of his 
sins; but if thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine anger, 
thy soul could not be saved. And again, itis expedient 
that thou shouldst forbear; forif thou shouldst slay thy 
son, (he being an innocent man,) his blood would ery from 
the ground, to the Lord his God, for vengeance to come 
upon thee; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy soul. Now. 
when Ammon had said these words unto him, he answered 
him, eying, I know that if I should slay my son, that I 
should shed innocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought: 
to destroy him: and he stretched forth his hand to slay 
Ammon. But Ammon withstood his blows, and also smote 
his arm that he could not use it. Now when the king saw: 
tat Ammon-could slay him, he began to plead with Am- 
mon, that he would spare his life. But Ammon raised his 
sword, and said unto him, behold, I will smite thee, ex- 
cept thou wilt grant unto me that my brethren may be cast 
out of prison. Now the king, fearing he should lose his 
life, said, if thou wilt spare me, I will grant unto thee. 
whatsoever thou wilt ask, even to half of the kingdom. 
Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the 
old king according to his desire, he said unto him, if thow 
wilt grant that my brethren may be cast out of prison, and 
also that Lamoni may retain his kingdom, and that ye be 
not displeased with him, but grant that he may do accor 
ding to his own desires, in whatsoever thing he thinkéth, 
then will I spare thee; otherwise I will smite thee to thd 
earth. Now when Ammon hed said these words, the king 
began to rejoice because of his life. And when he saw 
that Ammon had no desire to destroy him, and wheti hè 





BOOK OF AEM, Rig 


gop saw theygreat love he had for hie son Lamoni, he wag 
astonished exceedingly, and said, because this is all that 
thou. hast desired, that I would release thy brethren, and 
euffer that my son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, bè- 
hold, I will grant unto you that my son may retain his 
kingdom from this time and forever; and I will govern him 
no more. And I will also grant unto thee that thy breth- 
-Jen may be cast out of prison, and thou and thy brethren - 
may come unto me, in my kingdom; for I shall greatly 
desire to see thee; for the king was greatly astonished at 
the words which he had spoken, and also at the words 
which had been spoken by his son Lamoni: therefore he 
was desirous to learn them. 
And it came to pasa that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded 
on their journey towards the land of Middoni. And La- 
moni faund favor in the eyes of the king of the land; there- 
fore the brethren of Ammon were brought forth out of 
ison. And when Ammon did meet them, he was exceed- 
lng sorrowful, for behold, they were naked, and their skins 
were worn exceedingly, because of being bound with 
strong cords. And they also had suffered Finer thirst, 
and all kind of afflictians; nevertheless they were patient 
in all their sufferings. And asit happened, it was their 
lot to have fallen into the hands of a more hardened and a 
more stiffuecked people; therefore they would not hearken 
unto their words, and they had cast them out, and had 
smitten them, and had driven them from house to house, 
and from place to place, even until they had arrived to the 
land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast into 
prisoa, and bound with strong cords, and kept in prison 
for many days; and were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon. 


@ 


CHAPTER XIII. 


An atcount of the preaching of Aaron and Muloki, and 
their brethren, to the Lamanites. l 


Now when Anmnọn and his brethren separated them- 
sælves in the borders of the iand of the Lamanites, behold, 
Aaron took his journey towards the land which was called 
by the Lamanites, Jerusalem; calling it after the land of 
their fathers’ nativity; and it was away joining the borders 
of Mormon. Now the Lamanites, and the Amalekites, and 
the people of Amulon, had built a great city, which was 


278 -BOOK OF MLER. 


called Jerusalem. Now the Lamanites, of themsdlees, 
were sufficiently hardened, but the Amalekites, apd the 
Amulonites, were still harder; therefore they did cause the 
Lamanites that they should harden their hearts, that they 
should wax strong in wickedness, and their abominations. 

And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Je 
rusalem, and firstly began to preach to the Amalekites 
And he began to preach to them in their synagogues, for 
they had built synagogues, after the order of the Nehors; 
for many of the Amalekites and the Amulonites were after 
the order of the Nehors. Therefore, as Aaron entered into 
one of their synagogues to preach unto the people, and as 
he was apeaking unto them, behold there arose an Amalek- 
ite, and began to contend with him, saying, what is that 
thou hast testified? Hast thou seen an angel? Why do 
not angels appear unto us? Behold, are not this people as 
good as thy people? Thou also sayest, except we repent, 
we shall perish. How knowest thou the thought and in- 
tent of our heart? How knowest thou that we have cause 
to repent? How knowest thou that we are not a righteous 
people? Behold, we have built sanctuaries, and we doas- 
semble ourselves together to worship God. We do believe 
that God will save all men. 

Now Aaron said unto him, believest thou that the Son 
of God shall come to redeem mankind from theirsins? And 
the man said unto him, we do not believe that thou know- 
est any such thing. We do not believe in these foolish 
traditions. We donot believe that thou knowest of things 
to Come, neither do we believe that thy fathers, and also 
that our fathers did know concerning the things which 
they spake, of that which is to come. 

Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them, con- 
cerning the coming of Christ, and also concerning the ree 
urrection of the deadjand that there could be no redemp- 
tion for mankind, save it were through the death and 
sufferings of Christ, and the atonement of his blood. And 
it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto 
them, they were angry with him, and began to mock him; 
and they would not.hear the words which he spake; there- 
fore, when he saw that they would not hear his worda, he 
departed out of their synagogue, and cafne over to a village 
which was called Ani-anti, and there he found Mulok 
preaching the word unto them; and also Ammah, and his | 

rethren. And they contended with many about the word. 
And it came to pass that they saw that the people would 
harden their hearts; therefore they departed, and came over 
into the land of Middoni. And they did preach the word 





‘BOOK OF ALA. m 


unto many, and few believed on the words which the 
taught. Nevertheless, Aaron, and a certain number of his 
brethren, were taken and cast into prison, and the remain- 
der of them fled ont of the land of Middoni, unto the re- 
gions round about. And those who were cast into prison 
suffered many things, and they were delivered by the hand 
of Lamoni and Ammon: and they were fed and clothed. 
And they went forth again to declare the word; and thus 
they were delivered for the first time out of prison; and 
thus they had suffered. And they went forth whitherao- 
ever they were led by the spirit of the Lord, preaching the 
word of God in eon synagogue of the Amalekites, or in 
every assembly of the Lamanites, where they could be 
admitted. 

And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them, 
insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the 
tmth; yea, they did convince many of their sins, and of 

‘the tradition of their fathers, which were not correct. 

And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned 
from the land of Middoni, to the land of Ishmael, which 
was the land of their inheritance. And king Lamoni 
would not suffer that Ammon should serve him, or be his 
servant; but he caused that there should be synagogues 
built in the land of Ishmael; and he caused that his peo- 
ple. or the people who were under his reign, should assem- 

le themselves together. And he did rejoice over them, 
and he did teach them meny things. And he did also 
declare unto them that they were a people who were under 
him, and that they were a free people; that they were free 
from the oppression of the king, his father; for that his 
father had granted unto him that he might reign, over the 
* le who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the 
tnd round about. And he also declared unte them that 
they might have the liberty of worshipping the Lord their 
God, according to their desires, in whatsoever place they 
Were in, if it were in the land which was under the reign 
of king Lamoni. And Ammon did preach unto the peo- 
ple of king Lamoni. And it came to pass that he did 
teach them all things concerning things pertaining to 
qgtteousn ees. And he did exhort ‘them daij, with all 
diligence; and they gave heed unto his word, and me 
Were zealous for keeping the commandments of God. 
Now as Ammon waa thus teaching the people of Lamoni 
continually, we will return to the account of Aaron and 
his brethren: for after he departed from the land of Mid- 
doni, he was led by the spirit to the land of Nephi; even 

2 


X BOOK OF AIMA. 


to the house ofthe king which was over all the land, save 
it were the land of Ishmael; and he was the father of 
Lamoni. 

And it came to pass that he went in unto him into the 
king’s palace, with his brethren, and bowed himself before 
the king, and said unto him, behold, O king, we are the 
brethren of Ammon, whom thou hast delivered out of 
prison. And now, O king, if thou wilt sparo our lives, we 
will be thy servants. And the king said unto them, arise, 

_for I will grant unto you your lives, and I will not suffer 
that ye shall be my servants; but I will insist that ye 
shall administer unto me; for I have been somewhat 
troubled in mind, because of the generosity, and the great- 
ness of the words of thy brother Ammon: and I desire to 
.know the cause why he has not come up out of Middoni, 
with thee. And Aaron said unto the king, behold the 
spirit of the Lord has called him another way: he has gone 
to the land of Ishmael, to teach the people of Lamoni. 
Now the king said unto them, what is this that ye have 
-Baid concerning the spirit of the Lord? Behold, thisis the 
thing which doth trouble me. And also, what is this that 
Ammon said—if ye will repent ye shall be saved, and if 
.ye will not repent, ye shall be cast off at the last day! 
And Aaron answered him and said unto him, believest 
-thou that there is a God? And the king said, I know 
that the Amalekites say that there is a God, and I have 
granted unto them that they should build sanctuaries, that 
they may assemble themselves together, to worship him. 
— if now thou sayest there is a God, behold, I will be- 
ieve. ; 

And new when Aaron heard this, his heart began to 
rejoice, and he said, behold, assuredly, as thou livest, 0 
.king, there isa God. And the king said, is God that 
— Spirit that brought our fathers out of the land of 
' erusalem} _ And Aaron said unto him, yea, he is that 
. great Spirit, and he created all things, both in heaven and 
in earth : believest thou this? And he said yea, I believe 
that the great Spirit created all things, and I desire that 
ye should tell me concerning all these things, and I will 

elieye thy words, : 

And it came to pass that when Aaron sew that the kin 
would believe his words, he began from the creation © 
Adam, — the scriptures unto the king; how God 
created man after his own image, and that God gave him 

- commandments, and that because of transgression, man 
bad fallen. And Aaron did expound unto him the scrip- 
tures, from the creation of Adam, laying the fall of man 


BOOK OF ALMA. 279 


hefore him, aad their carnal state, and also the plan of 
redemption, which was prepared from the foundation of 
the world, through Christ, forall whosoever would believe 
on his name. And since man had fallen, he could not 
merit any thing of himself; but the sufferings and death 
of Christ atoneth for their sins, through faith and repent- 
ance, &c.; and that he breaketh the bands of death, that 
the grave shall have no victory, and that the sting of death ' 
should be swallowed up in the hopes of glory: and Aaron 
did expound all these things unto the king. And it came 
to pass that after Aaron had expounded — things unto 
him, the king said, what shall I do, that I may have this 
eternal life of which thou hast spoken? Yea, what shall 
I do that I may be born of God, having this ‘wicked spirit 
rooted out of my breast, and receive his spirit, that I may 
be filled. with joy, that I may not be cast off at the last day? 
Behold, said he,’ I will give up all that I possess; yea, I 
will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great 
joy. But Aaron said unto him, if thou desirest this thing, 
if thou wilt bow down before God, yea, if thou wilt repent 
of all thy sins, and will bow down before God, and call on 
his name in faith, believing that ye shall receive, then 
shalt thou receive the hope which thou desirest. 

And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these 
words, the. king did bow down before the Lord, upon his 
knees; yea, even he did prostrate himself upon the earth, 
and cried mightily, saying, O God, Aeron hath told me 
that there is a God: and if there is a God, and if thou art 
God, wilt thou make thyself known unto me, and I will 
give away all my sins to know thee, and that I may be 
raised from the dead, and be saved at the last day. And 
now when the king had said these words, he was struck as 
ifhe were dead. 

, And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the 
queen all that had happened unto the king, And she 
came in unto the king; and when she saw him lay as if 
he were dead, and also Aaron and his brethren standing’ 
as though they had been the cause of-his fall, she was 
angry with them, and commanded that her servants, or 
the servants of the king, should take them and slay them. 
Now the sorvants had seen the cause of the king’s fall, 
therefore they durst not lay their hands on Aaron and his' 
brethren; and they plead with the queen, saying, why 
commandest thou that we should slay these men, when 
behold, one of them is mightier than us all? Therefore 
we shalt fall before them. Now when the queen saw the 
feur of the servants, she also began to fear exceedingly, 


260 BOOK OF ALMA.” à 
lest there should'some evil come upon her. And sho com- 
manded her servants that they should go and call the peo- 
ple, that they might slay Aaron and his. brethren. Now 
when Aaron saw the determination of the queen, and he 
also knowing the hardness of the hearts of the people, 
feared lest that a multitude should assemble themseives 
together, and there should be a great contention, and a 
disturbance among them; therefore he put forth his hand 
and raised the king from the earth, and said unto him, 
stand: and he stood upon his feet receiving his strength. 
Now this was done in the presence of the queen, and 
many of the servants. And when they saw it, they 
greatly marveled, and began to fear. And the king stood 
orth and began to minister unto them. And he did 
minister unto them insomueh that his whole household 
was converted unto the Lord. Now there was a multi- 
tude gathered together because of the commandment of : 
the queen, and there began to be great murmurings among 
them, because of Aaron and his brethren. But the king 
stood forth among them, and administered unto them. 
And they were pacified towards Aaron, and those who 
were with him. l 
And it came to pass that when the king saw that the peo- 
ple were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his brethren 
should stand forth in the midst of the multitude, and that 
they should preach the word unto them. And it came to 
pase that the king sent a proclamation throughout all the 
and, amongst all his people who were in all his land, who 
were in all the regions round about, which was borderin 
even to the sea, on the east, and cn the west, and whi 
was divided from the land of Zarahemla by a narrow strip 
of wilderness, which ran from the sea east, even to the 
sea west, and round about on the borders of the sea shore, 
and the borders of the wilderness which was on the north, 
by the land of Zarahemla, through the borders of Manti, 
by the head of the river Sidon, running from the east to~ 
wards the west; and thus were the Lamanites and Ne 
hites divided. Now the more idle part of the Lamanites 
ived in the wilderness, and dwelt in tents; and they were 
spread through the wilderness, on the west, in the land of 
ephi: yea, and also on the west of the land of Zarahemla, 
in the borders, by the sea-shore, and on the west, in the 
land of Nephi, in the place of their fathers’ first inherit- 
ance, and thus bordering along by the seashore. And 
also there were many Lamanites on the east by the sea- 
shore, whither the Nephites had driven them. And thus 
the Nephites were nearly surrounded by the Lamanites: 








= 


BOOK OF. ALMA: i anr 


nbrertkelem the Nephites had taken possession of all the 
northern parts of the land, bordering on the wilderness, at 
the head of the river Sidon, from the east to the west, 
round about on the wilderness side;'on the north, even 
until they came te the land which they called Bountiful. 
And it bordereg on the land which they called Desolation; 
it being so far northward that it came into the land which 
hed been peopled, and been deatroyed, of whose bones we 
have spaken, which was discovered by the people of Zara- 
hamla; it being the place of their first landing. And they 
came from there up into the south wilderness. Thus the 
land on the north ward was called Desolation, and the land 
on the southward wes called Bountiful; it being the wild- 
emess which is filled with all: manner of wild animals of 
every kind; a part of which bad come from the land north- 
for food. And now it was only the distance of a 
day and a half ’s journey for a Nephite, on the line Boun- 
ifl nnd the land Desolation, from the east to the west 
sa; and thus. the land of Nephi, and the land of Zara- 
hemla, were nearly surrounded by water; there being a 
small neck of land between the land northward, and the 
land southward, . 
. And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabited the 
land Bountiful, even from the east, unto the west sea, and 
thus the Nephites in their wisdom, with their guards and 
their armies, had hemmed in the Lamanites on the south, 
that thereby they should have no more possesaion on the 
north, that they might not overrun the land northward; 
therefore the Lamanites could have no more possessions 
aly in the land of Nephi, ahd in the wilderness round 
about. Now this was wisdom in the Nephites; as the La- 
hanites were an enemy to them, they woyld not suffer their 
sfligtions on every hand, and also that they might have a 
eountry whither they might flee, according to their desires. 
Aud now I, after having said this, return again to the ac- 
— Ammon, and Aaron, Omner, and Himni, and their 
bten. , ; 


— Ito 


CHAPTER XIV. 


se BOPK OF aLaia. 


or Himni, nor either of their brethren who honig geforth 
reaching the word of God, in whatsoeyer place they should 
e, in any part of their land; yea, he sent a deckee among 
them, that they should not lay their hands on them tobind 
them, cr to east them into pneon; neither should they spit 
upon them, nor smite them, nor cast thepa out of their 
synagogues, nor scourge them; neither should they cast 
stones at them, but that they should have free access to their 
housea, and also their temples, and their sanctuaries; aad 
thus they might go forth and preach the word according to 
their desires, for the king had been converted unto the 
Lord, and all his household: therefore he sent this preele- 
mation throughout the land unto his people, that the word 
of God might have no obstruction, but that it might go 
forth throughout all the land, that his peeple might be 
convinced concerning the wicked traditions of their fath- 
ers, and that they might be convinced that they were all 
brethren, and thet they ought not to murder, nor to pina- 
der, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to commit 
any manner of wickedness. . And now it.came to pas 
that when the king had sent forth this proclamation, that 
Aaron and his brethren went forth from city te city, and 
from one house of worship to another, establishing ehutehes, 
end consecrating priests and teachers throughout the land 
among the Lamanites, to preach and to teach the word 
of God among them; and thus they began to haye great 
success. And thousands were brought to the knowle 
edge of the Lord, yea, thousands were brought to, believe 
in the traditions of the Nephites; and they were. taught 
the records and the prophecfes which were handed down, 
even to the present time; and as sure as the Lord liveth, 
so sure as many ag believed, or as many as were branght 
to the knowledge of the truth, through the preaching af 
Ammon and his brethren, according te the spirit of revelis» 
tion and of prophecy, and the power of God, werking 
miracles in them; yea, I say unta you, as the Lord diveth, 
as many of the Lamanites as believed in their preachi 
and wêre converted unto the Lord, never did fall away, 
for they became a righteous people; they did lay down the 
weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against 
God any more, neither against any of their brethren. Now 
these are they who were converted unto the Lord: the 
people of the Lamanites who were in the land of Ishmael, 
and also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the 
land of Middoni, and also of the people of the Lamanites 
who were in the city of Nephi, and also of the people of. 
e Lamanites who were ir the land of Shilom, and whe. 


Book‘'oP AREA. 229 


wereid thé lénd'of Shémlon, and in the city of Lemuel, 
‘and in the ety of Shimnilom; and these are. the names of 
the cities of.the Lamanites which were converted unto the 
Lord; and these are they that laid down the weapons of 
their rebellion, yea, all their weapons of war; and they 
were ali Lamanites. And the Amalekitea were not cone 
verted, save only one; neither were any of the Amulonites; 
but they did harden their hearts, and also the hearts of the 
Lamanites in that part of the land wheresoever they dwelt; 
ea, and all their villages and all their cities; therefore we 
ave named all the cities of the Lamanites in which they 
' did tgpent and como tothe ‘knowledge of the truth, and 
Were converted. ‘ J 
And now it came to pass that the king and those who 
Were converted, were desirous that they might have a 
Mame, that thereby they might be distinguished from their 
brethren; therefore the king consulted with Aaron and 
many of their priests, concerning the name that the 
should take upon them, that they might be distinguished. 
And it came to pass that they called their name Anti-Ne- 
phi-Lehies; and they were called by this name, and were 
ao more called Lamanites, And they began to be av 
industrious people; yea, and they were fmendly with the 
Nephites; therefore they did open a correspondence with 
them, and the curse of God did no more follow them. 
. And it came to pass that the Amalekites, and the Am- 
ulonites, and the Lemanites were in the land of Amuton, 
and also in the land of Helam, and who were in the land 
of Jerusalem, and in fine, in all the land round about, 
who had not been converted, and-had not taken upon them 
the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred up by the Am- 
alekites, and by the Amulonites, to anger against their 
brethren; and their hatred became exceeding sore against 
them, even insomueh that they began to rebel against 
their king, insomuch that they would not that he should 
be thoir king; therefore they toak up arms against the 
pesple of Anti-Nepli-Lehi. 

‘Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son and ` 
he called hie name Anti-Nephi-Lehi. And the king died 
tn that self-same year that the Lamanites began to make 
preparations for war against the people of God. Now 
when Ammon and his: brethren, and all those who had 
some up with him, saw the preparations of the Lamanites 
te destroy their brethren, they came forth to the land of 
Midian, and there Ammon met oli his brethren; and from 
thence they came to the land of Ishmael, that they might 
beld a council with Lamopi, and alse with his brothet 


eee BOON ‘or Alih 


Awti-Nephi-Lelti, whet they shouid do:te defend them 
selves against the Lamanites. Now: there’ was not one’ 
soul among allthe people who had been converted unto 
the Lord, that would take up arms against their.brethren; 
nay, they would not even make any preparations for war, 
yea, and also their king commanded them thet they. should 
not. Now these are the words which he said unto the 
people concerning the matter; I thank my God, my be- 
ed people, that our great God has in gondness sent these 
our brethren, the Nephites, unto ue to preach unto us, and, 
to conyince us of ike traditions of our wicked fathers. 
And behold, I thank my great God that he hag given ps a 
portion of his spirit to soften our hearts, that .we have 
pened a correspondence with thése brethren, the Ne- 
phites; and behold, I also thank: my God that by opening 
this correspondence we have been convineed of our sins; 
and of the many murders which we have committed; and 
I also thank. my God, yea, my great God, that he hath 
granted unto us that we might repent of these things, and. 
also that he hath forgiven us of thesc,our many sins and 
murders which we have ‘committed, and took away the 
guilt from our hearts, through the merits of his Son. And 
now behold, my brethren, since it has-been all that we 
could do, (as.we were-the most lost of all mankind,) te 
repent of ali our sins and the many murders which we. 
have committed, and to get Gad to take them away from 
our hearts, for it was.all we could do to repent sufficiently 
before God, that he would take away our stein. Now my 
best beloved brethren, since God hath taken away our 
stains, and our swords have become bright, thén let us 
stain our swords no more with the blood of our brethren. 
Behold, I say unto you, nay, let: us retain our swords,.that 
they be not stained with the blood of owr brethrena for 
perbapa, if we should etain out swords again, they cas 
no more be washed bright through the blood of the Sod 
of our great God, which shell be shed for the stonement 
of our sins. And the great God has had mercy on ua, 
and mede these things known unto us, that we might not 
poe yea, and he has made theso things known unte yë 
eforehand, because he loveth our sols as well as he lovr 
eth our children; therefore in his mercy he doth visit te 
by his angels, that the plan of salvation might be meade 
nown unto us as well as unto future generations. . O.how 
merciful is our God! And now behold, since it hes beer 
as much as we could do to get our stains taken away from 
us, and our swords are made bright, let us hide them away 
shat they may be kept bright, aa. 8. testimony to our Gad 


BOOK OF ALMA - Zan: 


at the lost day, or at the day that we shall be brought to; 
stand before him to be judged, that we have not stained 
our swords in the blood of our brethren since he imparted 
his word unto us, and has made us clean thereby. And 
now my brethren, if our brethren seek to destroy us, be- 
hold, we will hide away our swords: yea, even we will 
bury them deep ig the earth, that they may be kept bright, 
as a testimony that we have never used them, at the last 
day; and if our brethren destroy us, behold, we shall go 
to our God and shall be saved. i 

And now it came to pass that when the king had made 
an end of these sayings, and all the people were asseme 
bled together, they took their swords, and all the weapons 
which were used for the shedding of man’s blood, and 
they did bury them up deep in the earth; and this they 
did, it being in their view a testimony to God, and also to 
men, that they never would use weapons again for the 
shedding of man’s blood; and this they did, vouching and 
covenanting with God, that rather than shed the blood of 
their brethren, they would give up their own lives; and 
rather than take away from a brother, they would give 
anto him; and rather than spend their days in idleness, 
they would labor abundantly with their hands; and thus 
we see that when these Lamanites were brought to believe. 
and to know the truth, they were firm, and would suffer 
even unto death, rather than commit sin; and thus we 
see, that they buried the weapons of peace, or they buried 
the weapons of war, for peace. 

And it came to pass that their brethren the Lamanites, 
made preparations for war, and came up to the land of 
Nephi, for the pup of destroying the king, and te 
place another in his stead, and also of destroying the peo- 
ple of Anti-Nephi-Lehi out of the land. Now when the 
people saw that they were coming against them, they 
went out to meet them, and prostrated themselves before 
them to the earth, and began to call on the name of the 
Lord; and thus they were in this attitude when the La- 
manites began to fail upon them, and began to slay them 
with the sword; and thus without meeting any resistance, 
they did slay a thousand and five of them; and we know 
that they are bleseed, for they have gone to dwell with. 
their God. Now when the Lamanites saw that their 
brethren would not flee from the sword, neither would 
they turn aside to the right hand or to the left, but that 
they would lie down and perish, and praised God even in 
the very act of perishing under the sword; now. when the 

tea saw this, they did forbear from slaying thema; 


26° BOOK OF ALMA. 


and there weré many whose hearts had swollen iri them 
for those of their brethren who had fallen under the sword, 
for they repented of the things which they had done. 

And it came to pass that they threw down their weap- 

ons of war, and they would not take them again, for they 
were stung for the murders which they had committed; 
and they came down even as their brethren, relying upon 
the mercies of those whose arms were lifted to slay them. 
' And it came to pase that the people of God were joined 
that day by more than the number who had been slain; 
and those who had been slain were righteous people; 
therefore we have no reason to doubt but what they are 
saved. And there was not a wicked man slain among 
them; but there were more than a thousand brought to 
the knowledge of the truth; thus we see that the Lora 
worketh in many ways to the salvation of his people. Now 
the greatest number of those of the Lamanites who stew 
so many of their brethren, were Amalekites and Amulon- 
ites, the greatest number of whom were after the order of 
the Nehors. Now among thoge who joined the people of 
the Lord, there were none who were Amalekites or Amu- 
lonites, or who were of the order of Nehor, but they were 
actual descendants of Laman and Lemuel: and thus we 
can plainly discern, that after a you's have been once 
enlightened by the spirit of God, and have had great 
knowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then 
have fallen away into sin and transgression, they become 
more hardened, and thus their state becomes worse than 
though they had never known these things. . 

And behold, now it came to pass that those Lamanites 
were more angry, because they had slain their brethren; 
therefore they swore vengeance upon the Nephites; and 
they did no more attempt to slay the people of Anti-Nephi- 
Lehi at that time; but they took their armies and went 
over into the borders of the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon 
the people who were in the land of Ammonihah, and de- 
stroyed them: And after that, they had many battles with 
the Nephites, in the which they were drivon and slain; 
and ane the Lamanites who wete slain, were almost all 
the seed of Amulon and his brethren, who were the priests 
of Noah, and they were slain by the hands of the Nephites; 
and the remainder having fled into the east wilderness, and 
having usurped the power and authority over the Laman- 
ites, caused that many of the Lamanites should perish by 
fire, because of their belief: for many of them, after having 
suffered much loss dnd so many afflictions, began to be 
stirred up in remembrance of the words which Aaron and 


WOOK OF ALMA. 887 


his. brethren hed preachod to them in their land: therefoze 
they began to disbelieve the traditions of their fathets, and 
to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great power unto 
the Nephites; snd thus there wore many ot them converted 
in the wilderness. 

And it came to pass that those rulers who were the rem- 
nant of the children of: Amulon, cuused that they should 
be put to death, yea, all those that believed in these things. 
Now this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren 
should be stirred up to anger; and there began to be con- 
tention in thé wilderness; and the Lamanites began to 
hunt the seed of Amulon and his brethren, and began to 
slay them, and they fled into the east wilderness. And be- 
hold they are hunted at thie day, by the Lamanites: thus 
the words of Abinadi were brought to pass, which he said 
concerning the seed of the priests who caused that he 
should suffer death by fire. For he said unto them, what 
ye shall do unto me, shall be a type of things to come. And 
now Abinadi was the first that suffered death by fire, be- 
cause of his belief in God: now this is what he meant, that 
many should suffer death by fire, according as he had suf- 
fated. And he said unto the priests of Noah, that their 
sced should cause many to be put to death, in the like man- 
neras he was, and that they should be scattered abroad 
and slain, even asa sheep having no shepherd is driven and 
slain by wild beasts; and now behold, these words were 
verified, for they were driven by the Lamanites, and they 
were hunted, and they were smitten. 

And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that 
they could not overpower the Nephites, they returned again 
to their own land; and many of them came over to dwell 
in the land of Ishmael and the land of Nephi, and did join 
themselves to the people of God, who were the people of 
Anti-Nephi-Lehi; and they did also bury their weapons 
of war, according as their brethren had, and they began to 
‘be a righteous people; and they did walk in the ways of 
the Lord, and did observe to keep his commandments, and 
his statutes, yea, and they‘did nak: the law of Moses; for 
it was expedient that they should keep the law of Moses 
as yet, for it was not all fulfilled. But notwithstandin 
the law of Moses, they did look forward to the coming 9 
Christ, considering that the law of Moses was a type of his 
coming, and believing that they must keep those outward 
performances, until ‘he time that he should be revealed 
unto them. Now they did not suppose that salvation came 
by the law of Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to 
strengthen their faith in Christ; and thus they did retaina 


DOOK OF ALMA. 


o through faith, unto eternel salvation, relying upon the 
peed of — a Which spake of those hinges come. ` 
And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and ‘Umner, and 
Himni, and their brethren, did rejoice exceedingly, for the 
success which they had had among the Lamanites, seeing 
that the Lord had granted unto them according to their 
prayers, and that he had also verified his word unto them 
in every particular. And now, these are the words of Am- 
mon to his brethren, which say thus: My brothers and my 
brethren, behold I say unto you, how great reason have we 
to rejoice: for could we have — when we started 
from the land of Zarahemla, that God would have granted 
unto us such great blessings? And now I ask, what great 
blessings has he boored. upon us? Caa ye tell? Behold, 
I answer for you; for our brethren, the Lamanites, were in 
darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyes; but behold, how 
many of them are brought to behold the marvelous light of 
God! And this isthe blessing which hath been bestowed 
upon us, thet we have been made instruments in the hands 
of God, to bring about thie great work. Behold, thousands 
of them do rejoice, and have been brought into the fold of | 
God. Behold, the field was ripe, and blessed are ye, for 
ye did thrust in the sickle, and did reap with — mights, 
yea, all the day long did ye labor; and behold the number 
of your sheaves, and they shall be gathered into the gar- 
ners, that they are not wasted; yea, they shall not be beat- 
en down by the storm, at the last day; yea, neither shall 
they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds; but when the 
storm cometh, they shall be gathered together in their 
place, that the storm cannot penetrate to them; yea, nei- 
ther shall they be driven with fierce winds, whithersoever 
the enemy listeth to carry them. But behold, they are in 
the hands of the Lord of the harvest, and they are hie; and 
he will raise them up at the last day. Blessed be the name 
of our God; let us sing to his praise, yea, let us give thanks 
to his holy name, for he doth work righteousness forever. 
For if we had not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, 
these our dearly beloved brethren, who have so dearly be- 
loved us, would atill have been racked with hatred against 
us, yea, and they would also have been strangers to God. 

And it came to pass that when Ammon had said theee 
words, his brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: Ammon, 
I fear that thy joy doth carry thee away unto: boasting. 
But Ammon said unto him, I do not boast in my own 
strength, or in my own wisdom; but behold, my: joy is 
full, yea, my heart is brim with joy, and I will rejoice in 
my God; yea, I know that I am nothing; as to my strength, 


BOOK OF ALMA. ap 


Tam week ; therefore I will not boast of myself, but I wil] 
boast of my God; for in his strength I can do all things; 
yea, behold, many mighty miracles we have wrought in 
this land, for which we will praise his name forever. Be» 
hold, how many thousands of our brethren has he loosed 
from the pains of hell; and they are brought to sing re- 
deeming love; and this because of the power of his word 
which is in ug; therefore have we not great reason to re» 
joicee? Yea, we have reason to praise him forever, for he 
is the most high God, and has joosed our brethren. from 
the chains of hell. Yea, they- were encircled about with 
everlasting darkness and destruction; but behold, he has 
brought them into his everlasting light, yea, into ever- 
lasting salyation; and they are encircled about with the 
matchless bounty of his love: yea, and we have been ine 
struments in his hands, of doing this great and marvelous 
work; therefore let us glory, yea, we will glory in the 
Lord; yea, we will rejoice, for our joy is full; yea, we 
will praise our God forever.. Behold, who can glory toe 
much iu the Lord? Yea, who can say too much of his 
gteat power, and of his mercy, and of his long sufferin 
reais the children of men? Behold I say unto you, t 
cannot say the smallest part which I feel. Who could 
have supposed that our God would have been so merciful 
as to have snatched us from our awful, sinful, and polluted 
state? Behold, we went forth even in wrath, with mighty 
threatnings to destroy his church. O then, why did he 
hot consign us to an awful destruction; yea, why did he 
not let the sword of his justice fall upon us, and doom us 
to eternal despair? O my soul, almost as it were fleeth at 
the thought. Behold, he did not exercise his justice upon 
us, but in his great mercy hath brought us over that ever- 
lasting gulf of death and misery, even to the salvation of 
our souls. And now behold, my- brethren, what natural 
man is there, that knowest these things? I say unto you, 
there is none that knoweth these things, save it be the 
peniteat; ea, he that repenteth and exerciseth faith, and 
ringeth forth good works, and prayeth continually with- 
out ceasing: unto such it is given to know the mysteries 
of God; yea, unto such it shall be given to reveal things 
which never have been revealed; yea, and it shell be given 
unto such, to bring thousands of souls to repentance, even 
as it has been given unto us to bring these our brethren 
to repentance. Now do ye remember, my brethren, that 
We said unto our brethren in the land of Zarahemla, we 
go up to the land of Nephi, as preach unto our brethren, 


260 BOOK OF ALMA. 


the Lamanites, and: they laughed us to scorn? For they 
said unto us, do yp suppose that ye can bring the Laman- 
ites to the knowledge of the truth? Do ye suppose that 
ye can convince the Lamanites of the incorrectness of the 
traditions of their fathers, as stiffnecked a people as they 
are; whose hearts delight in the shedding of blood; 
whose days have been spent in the grossest iniquity; 
whose ways have been the ways of a trangressor, from 
the beginning? Now my brethren, ye remember that 
this was their language. And moreover, they did say, 
let us take up arms against them, that we destroy them 
and their iniquity out of the land, lest they overrun us and 
destroy us. But behold, my beloved brethren, we came 
into the wilderness not with the intent to destroy our 
brethren, but with the intent that perhaps we might save 
some few of their souls. Now when our hearts were de- 
preen and we were about to turn back, behold, the 

ord comforted us, and said, go amongst thy brethren, the 
Lamanites, and bear with patience thine afflictions, and I 
will give unto you success. And now behold, we have 
come, and been forth amongst them; and we have been 
patient in our sufferings, and we have suffered every pri- 
vation; yea, we have travelled from house to house, rely- 
ing upon thé mercies of the world; not upon the mercies 
of the world alone, but upon the mercies of God. And 
we have entered into their houses and taught them, and 
we have taught them in their streets; yea, and we have 
taught them upon their hills; and we have also entered 
into their femples and their synagogues and taught them; 
and we have been cast out, and mocked, and spit upon, 
and smote upon our cheeks;-and we have been stoned, and 
taken ‘and bound with strong cords, and cast into prison; 
and through the power and wisdom of God, we have been 
delivered again: and we have suffered all manner of af- 
flictions, and all this, that perhaps we might be the means 
of saving some soul; and we supposed that our joy would 
be full, if perhaps we could be the means of saving some. 
Now behold, we can iook forth and seé the fruits of our 
labors; and are they few? I say unto you, nay, they are 
many; yea, and we can witness of their sincerity, because 
of their love towards their brethren, and also towards us. 
For behold, they had rather sacrifice their lives than even 
to take the life of their enemy; and they have burted their 
weapons of war deep in the earth, because of their love 
towards their brethren. And now behold I say unto you, 
has there been so great love in all the land? Behold, I 
say unto you, nay, there has not oven &mong the Nephites. 


BOOK OF ALMA. 201 


Fer behold, they would take up arme against their breth- 
ren; they would not suffer themselves to be slain. But 
behold, how many of these have laid down their lives; 
and we know that they have gone to their God, because 
of theirlove, and of their hatred tosin. Now have we 
not reason to rejoice? ’ Yea, I say unto you, there never 
were men that had so great reason to rejoice as we, since 
the world began; yea, and my joy is carried away, even 
unto the boasting in my God; for he has all power, all 
wisdom, and all understanding; he comprehendeth all 
things, and he is a merciful Being, even unto salvation, to 
those who will repent and believe on his name. Now if 
this is boasting, even so will I boast; for this ia my life 
and my light, my joy and my salvation, and my redemp- 
tion from everlasting wo. Yea,-blessed is the name of my 
God, who has been mindful of this people, who area 
branch of the tree of Israel, and has been lost from its 
body, in-a strange’ land; yea, I say, blessed bo the name 
of my God, who has been mindful of us wanderers in a 
strange land. Now my brethren we see that God is mind- 
ful of every people, whatsoever land they may be in; yea, 
he numbereth his people, and his bowels of mercy are 
over all the earth. Now this is my joy, and my great 
thanksgiving; yea, and I will give thanks unto my God 
forever. Amen. | 


— Gee 


CHAPTER XV. 


Now it came to pass that when those Lamanites who 
had gone to war against the Nephites, had found, after 
their many struggles to destroy them, that it was in vain 
to seek their destruction, they returned again tothe land 
of Nephi. And it came to pass that the Amalekites, be- 
cause of their loss, were exceeding angry. And when 
they sew that they could not seek revenge from the Ne- 
phites, they began to stir up the pegple in anger against 
their brethren, the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi; therefore 
they began again to destroy them. Now this people again 
refused to take their arma, and they suffered themselves to 
be slain according to the desires of their enemies. Now 
when Ammon and his brethren saw this work of destruc- 
tion among those whom they so dearly beloved, and among 
those who had so dearly beloved them; for they were 
treated as though they were angels sent from God to 


292 BOOK OF ALMA. 


gave them from everlasting destruction; therefore, when 
Ammon and his brethren saw this great work of de- 
struction, they were moved with compassion, and they 
said unto the king, let us gather together this people 
of the Lord, and let us go down to the land of Za. 
rahemla, to our brethren, the Nephites, and flee out of the 
hands of our enemies, that we be not destroyed. But the 
king said unto them, behold, the Nephites will destroy us, 
because of the many murders and sins we have commit- 
ted against them. And Ammon said, I. will go and in- 
quire of the Lord, and if he say unto us, go down unto 
our brethren, will ye go? And the king said unto him 
. yea: if the Lord saith unto us go, we will go down unto 
our brethren, and we will be theirslaves until we repair unto 
them the many murders and sins which we have commit- 
ted againstthem. But Ammon said unto hin, it is against 
the law of our brethren, which was established by my 
father, that there should be any slaves among them; there- 
fore.let us go down and rely upon the: mercies of our 
brethren. But the king said unto him, inquire of the Lord, 
and if he saith unto us go, we will go; otherwise we will 
perish in the land. } ' 

And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired of 
the Lord, and the Lord said unto him, get this people out 
of this land, that they perish not, for satan has great hold 
on the hearts of the Amalekites, who do stir up the La- 
manites to anger against their brethren, to slay them; 
therefore get thee out of this land; and blessed are this 
people in this generation; for I will preserve them.. 

And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told the 
king all the words which the Lord had said unto him. 
And they gathered together all their people; yea, all the 
people of the Lord, and did gather together all their flocks 
and herds, and departed out of the land, and came into 
the wilderness which divided the land of Nephi trom the 
a of Zarahemla, and came over near the borders of the 

end. 

And it came to pass that Ammon said unto them, be 
„hold, I and my brethren will go forth into the land of Za- 
rahemla, and ye shall remain here until we return; and 
we will try the hearts of our brethren, whether they will 
that ye shall come jnto their land. 

And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth 
into the land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over in 
the place of which has been spoken; and behold, this was 
a joyful meeting. Now the joy of Ammon was so great, 
even that he was full; yea, he was swallowed up in the 


` 











BOOK: OF ALMA. 293 


joy of his God, even to the exhausting of his strength; 
and he fell again to the earth. Now was not this exceed- 
ing joy? Behold, this is joy which none receiveth save it 
be the truly penitent and humble seeker of happiness. 
Now the joy of Alma in meeting his brethren was truly 
great, and also the joy of Aaron, of Omner, and Himhi: 
ut behold, their joy was not that to exeeed their strength. 
-.And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his 
brethren back to the land of Zarahemla; even to his own 
house. And they went and ‘told the chief judge all the 
things that had happened unto them in the land of Nephi 
among their brethren, the Lamanites. 
And it came to pass that the chief judge sent a procla- 
mation throughout all the land, desiring the voice of the 
people concerning the admitting their brethren, who were 
the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi. And it came to pass that 
the voice of the people came, saying, behold, we will give 
up the land of Jershon, which is on the east by the sea, 
which joins the land Bountiful, which is on the south of 
the land Bountiful; and this land Jershon is the land 
which we will give unto our brethren for an inheritance, 
And behold, we will set our armies between the land Jer- 
shon and the land Nephi, that we may protect our breth- 
tenin the land Jershon; and this we do for our brethren, 
on account of their fear to take up arms against their 
brethren, lest they: should commit sin: and this great fear 
came, because of their sore repentance which they had, 
on account of their many murders, and their awful wick- 
edness. And now behold, this will we do unto our breth- 
ten, that they may inherit the land Jershon; and we will 
guard them from their enemies with our armies, on condi- 
tions they will give us a portion of their substance to 
assist us, that we may maintain our armies. 
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, 
he returned to the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, and also 
Alma with him, into the wilderness, whence they hed 
pitched their tents, and made known unto them all these 
things, And Alma also related unto them his conversion 
with Ammon; and Aeron, and hisbrethren. Andit came 
to pass that it did cause great j7 among them. And they 
went down. into the land of Jershon, and took possession 
of the land of Jershon; and ae were called by the Ne- 
phites the people of Ammon; therefore they were distin- 
— by that name ever after; and they were among 
e people of Nephi, and also numbered among the people 
who were of the church of God, And they were also distin- 
Ae Pe 25 


wga Jook OF ALMA. 


ished for their zeal towards God, and also towatds men; 
for they were perfectly honest and upright in all things: 
and they were firm in the faith of Christ, even qnto the 
end. And they did look upon shedding the blood of their 
brethren with the greatest abhorrence; and they never 
could be prevailed upon to take up arms against their breth» 
ren; and they never did look upon death with any degree 
of terror for their hope and views of Christ and the resur- 
rection; therefore death was swallowed up to them by the 
victory of Christ over it: therefore they would suffer death 
in the most aggravating and distressing manner which 
could be inflicted by their brethren, before they would take 
the sword or the cimeter to smite them. And thus they 
were a zealous and beloved people, a highly favored peo 
ple of the Lord. ' j 

And now it came to pass that after the people of Am 
mon were established in the land of Jershon, and a church 
also established in the land of Jershon; and the armies of 
the Nephites were set round about the land of Jershon; 
yen in all the borders round about the land of Zarahemla; 

ehold the armies of the Lamanites had followed their 

brethren into the wilderness. And thus there was a tre 
mendous battle; yea, even such an one as never had been 
known among all the people in the land from the time 
Lehi left Jerusalem; yea, and tens of thousands of the 
‘Lamanites were slain and scattered abroad. Yea, and 
also there was a tremendous slaughter among the people 
of Nephi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were driven and 
scattered, and the people of Nephi returned again to their 
land. And now this was a time that there was a great 
mourns and lanientation heard throughout all the land 
among all the people of Nephi; yea, the cry of widows 
mourning for their husbands, and also of fathers mourning 
for their sons, and the daughter for the brother; yea, the 
‘brother for the father: thus the cry of mourning was heard 
among every one of them: mourning for their kindred 
who had been slain. And now surely this was a sorrow- 
ful day; yea, a time of solemnity and a time of much fast- 
ing and prayer: and thus endeth the fifteenth year of the 
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; and this is 
the account of Ammon and his brethren, their journeyings 
in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land, their sor- 
rows, and their afflictions, and their incdmprehensible joy, 
and the reception and safety of the brethren in the lan 
Jershon. And now may the Lord, the Redeemer of all 
‘men, bless their souls forever. And thisis the account 
the wars and contentions among the Nephites, and also 


ROOK OF ALMA. oe 


the ware between the Nephites end the Lemanites; and 
the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges is ended; and 
from the first year to the fifteenth, has — to pass the 
destruction of many thousand lives; yea, it has brought to 
pass an awful scene of bloodshed; and the bodies of man 
thousands are laid low in the earth, while the bodies o 
many thousands are mouldering in heaps upon the face of 
the earth: yea, and many thousands are mourning for the 
loss of their kindred, because they have reason to tear, ac- 
cording to the promises of the Lord, that they are consign- 
od to a state of endless wo; while many thousands of oth» 
ers truly mourn for the loss of their kindred, yet they 
rejoice and exult in the hope, and even know, — 
to the promises of the Lord, that they are raised to dwel 
at the right hand of God, in a state of never ending hape 
piness; and thus we see how great the inequality of man 
ts becanse of sin and transgression, and the power of the 
dévil, which comes by the cunning,plans which he hath 
devised to ensnare. the hearts of men: and thus we see the 
great call of diligence of men to labor in the vineyards of 
the Lord; and thus we see the great reason of sorrow, and 
elso of rejoicing; sorrow because of death and destruction 
among men, and. joy because of the light of Christ unto 
life. O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of 
mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump 
of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance 
unto every people; yea, I would declare unto every soul, 
as with the voice of thunder, repentance, and the plan of 
tedemption, that they should repent and come unto our 
God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face 
of the earth. But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my 
wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the 
Lord hath allotted unto me. I ought not to harrow up in 
my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know 
that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether 
ìt be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he al- 
lotteth unto men, according to their wills; whether they 
be unto salvation or unto destruction; yea, and I know that — 
good and evil have come before all men; er he that know- 
eth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth 
good aad evil, to him it is given according to his desires; 
whether he desireth good or evil, lifé or death, joy or re- 
morse of conscience. Now seeing that I know these things, 
Why should I desire more than to perform the work to 
which I have been called? Why-should I desire that I 
was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the 
earth? For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, 


- 


296 BOOK OF ALMA. 


of their own nation and tongue, to teaeh his werd: yoe, in 
wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should-have; there- 
fore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, accord» 
ing to that which is just and true. I know that which 
the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in it: I do not 
glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath 
commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I 
may be an instrument in the hands of God, to bring some 
soul to repentance: and this is my joy. And behold, whea 
I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to 
the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy; thea 
do I remember what the Lord has done for me; yea, eves 
that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember 
his merciful arm which he extended towards me; yea, and 
I also remember.the captivity of my fathers; for I surely 
do know that the Lord did deliver them out of bondage, 
and by this did establish his church; yea, the Lord God, 
the God of Abraham, ghe God of Isaac, and the God of Je 
cob, did deliver them out of bondage; yea, I have always 
temembered the captivity of my fathers; and that same 
God who delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians, 
did deliver them out of bondage; yea, and that same God 
did establish his church among them; yea, and that seme 
God hath called me by a holy calling, to preach the word 
unto this people, and hath given me much success, in the 
which my joy is full; but I do not joy in my own success 
alone, but my joy is more full because of the success of 
thy brethren, who have been up to the land of Nephi. Be 
hold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought 
forth much fruit; and. how great shall be their reward. 
Now when I think of the success of these my brethren, my 
soul is carried away, even to the separation of it from the 
body, as it were, so great is my joy. 

_ And now may God grant unto these my brethren, that 
they may sit down in the kingdom of God; yea, and also 
all those who are the fruit of their labors-that they may go 
no more out, but that they may praise him forever. And 
may God grant that it may be done according to my words, 
even as I have spoken. Amen. 


—>1o— 


CHAPTER XVI. 


BEHOLD, now it came to pass that after the people of 
Ammon were established in the land of Jershon, yea, 


> 


BOOZ OF ALMA. 291 


also after the Lamanites were driven out of the land, and 
their dead were buried by the people of the land. Now 
their dead were not numbered, because of the greatness of 
their numbers, neither were the dead of the Nephites num- 
bered. But it came to pass after they had buried their 
dead, and also after the days of fasting, and mourning, and 
prayer, (and it was in the sixteenth year of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi.) there began to be 
continual peace throughout all the land, yea, and the peo- 
pie did observe to keep the commandments of the Lord; 
and they were strict in observing the ordinances of God, 
according to the lew of Mores; for they were taught to 
keep the law of Moses, until it should be fulfilled; and thus 
the people did have no disturbance in all the sixteenth year 
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. 

And it came to pass in the seventeenth year of the reign 
of the judges, there was continual peace. But it came to 
pass in the latter end of the seventeenth year, there came 
a man into the land of Zarahemla; and he was Anti-Christ, 
for he began to preach unto the people against the prophe- 
eies which had been spoken by the prophets, concerning 
the coming of Christ. Now there was no law against a 
man’s belief; for it was strictly contrary to the commands 
of God, that there should-be a law which should bring men 
-on to unequal grounds. For thus saith the scripture. Choose 
ye this day whom ye will serve. Now if a man desired to 
serve God, it was his privilege, or rather if he believed in 
God, it was his privilege to serve him; but if he did not 
believe in him, there was no law to punish-him. But if he 
murdered, he was punished unto death; and if he robbed, 
-he was also punished; and if he stole, he was also punish- 
ed; and if he committed adultery, he was also punished; 
yea, for all this wickedness, they were punished; for there 
was a law, that men should be judged according to their 
crimes. Nevertheless, there was no law against a man’s 
vehef; therefore, a man was punished only for the crimes 

which he had done; therefore all men were on equal 
grounds. And this Anti-Christ, whose name was Korihor, 
(and the law could have no hold upon him,) began to preach 
unto the people, that there should be no Christ. And after 
this manner did he preach, saying: O ye that are bound 
down under a foolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke 
yourselves with such foolish things? Why do ye look for 
e Christ? For no man can know of any thing which is to 
come. Behold, these things which ye call prophecies, 
which ye say are handed down by holy prophets, behold. 
-shey are foolish traditions of your fathers. How do ye know 


298 BOOK OF ALMA. 


of their surety? Behold, ye cannot know of things whick 

e do not see; therefore ye eannot know that there shall 
te a Christ. Ye look forward and say, that ye see a remis- 
sion of your sins. But behold, it is the effect of a phrensied 
mind: and this derangement of your minds comes because 
of the traditions of your fathers, which lead you away into 
a belief of things which are notso. And many more such 
things did he say unto them, telling them that there could 
be no atonement made for the sins of men, but every man 
fared in this life, according to the management of the crea- 
ture; therefore every man prospered according to his ge 
nius, and that every man conquered<aceording to his 
strength; and whatsoever a man Sia, was no crime, And 
thus he did preach unto them, leading away the hearts of 
many, causing them to lift up their heads in their wicked- 
ness; yea, leading away many women, and also men, to 
commit whoredoms; telling them that when a man was 
dead, that was the end thereof. 7 

Now this man went over to the land of Jershon also, to 
preach these things among the people of Ammon, who 
were once the people of the Lamanites. But behold, the 
were more wise than many of the Nephites; for they too 
him, and bound him, and carried him before Ammon, who 
was a high priest over that people. : 

And it came to pass that he caused that he should be 
carried out of the land. And he came over into the land 
of Gideon, and began to preach unto them also; and here 
he did not have much success, for he was taken and bound, 
and carried before the high priest, and also the chief judge 
over the land. 

And it came to pass that the high priest said unto him, 
why do ye go about perverting the ways of the Lord? Why 
do ye teach this people that there shall be no Christ, to in- 
terrupt their rejoicings? Why do ye speak against all the 
prophecies af the holy prophets? Now the high priests 
name was Giddonah. And Korihorsaid unto him, because 
I do not teach the foolish traditions of your fathers, and 
because I do not teach this people to bind themselves down 
under the foolish ordinances and performances which are 
laid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and authority 
_ over them, to keep them in ignorance, that they may not 

lift up their heads, but be brought down according to Pi 
words. Yo say that this people is a free people. Behold, 
I say they are in bondage. Ye say that those ancient pro- 
phecies are true. Behold, I say that ye do not know thet 
they are true. Ye say that this people isa guilty and 8 
fallen people, because of the transgression of a parent. Be- 





BOOK OF ALMA. 290 


hold, I say thet a child is not guilty because of its parents. 
And ye also say that Christ shall come. But behold, I say 
that ye do not know that there shall be a Christ. And ye 
say also, that he shall be slain for the sins of the world; and 
thus ye lead away this people after the foolish traditions 
of your fathers, and according to your own desires; and ye 
keep them down, even as it were, in bondage, that ye may 
lut yourselves with the labors of their hands, that they 
urst not look up with boldness, and that they durst not 
enjoy their rights and privileges; yea, they durst not make 
use of that which is their own, lest they should offend their 
riests, who do yòke them according to their desires, and 
ave brought them to believe by their traditions, and their 
dreams, and their whims, and their visions, and their pre- 
tended mysteries, that they should, if théy did not do ac- 
cording to their words, offend some unknown being, who 
they say is God; a being who never has been seen nor 
known, who never was nor ever will be. Now when the 
high priest and the chief judge saw the hardness of his 
heart; yea, when they saw that he would revile even against 
God, they would not make any reply to his words; but 
they caused that he should be bound; and they delivered 
him up into the hands of the officers, and sent him to the 
land of Zarahemla, that he might be brought before Alma, 
and the chief judge, who was governor over all the land. 
And it came to pass that when he was brought before 
Alma and the chief judge, he did go on in the same man- 
ner as he did in the land of Gideon; yea, he went on to 
blaspheme. And he did rise upin great swelling words 


before Alma, and did revile against the priests and teach-. 


ets, accusing them of leading away the people after the 
silly traditions of their fathers, for the sake of glutting in 
the labors of the people. Now Alma said unto him, thou 
knowest that we do not glut ourselves upon the labors of 
this people; for behold, I have labored even trom the com- 
mencement of the reign of the judges, until now, with 
mine own hands, for my support, notwithstanding my 
many travels round about th'e land, to declare the word of 
God unto my people. And notwithstanding the many la- 
bors which I have performed in the church, I have never 
received so much as even one senine for my labor; neither 
has any of my brethren, save it were in the judgment 
geat; and then we have received only according to law, 
for our time. And now if we do not receive any thing 


for our labors in the church, what doth it profit us to la- , 


hor in the church, save it were to declare the truth, that 
we may have rejoiciags in the joy of our brethren? Then 


‘N 


B00 BOOK OF ALM4. 


why sayest thou thet we preach unto this people toget 
gain, when thou of thyself knowest that we receive no 
gain? And now, believest thou that we deceive this peo- 
ple, that causes such joy in their hearts? And Konhor 
answered him, yee. And then Alma said unto him, be- 
lievest thou that there is a God? And he answered, nay, 
Now Alma said unto him, will ye deny again that there is 
a God, and also deny the Christ? for be old. I say unto you, 
I know there is a God, and also that Christ shall come. 
And now, what evidence have ye that there is no God, or 
that Christ cometh not? I say unto you that ye have 
none, save it be your word only. But behold, I have all 
things as a testimony that these things are true; and ye also 
have all things as a testimony unto you that they are true; 
and will ye deny them} Betievest thou that these things 
are true? Behold, I know that thou believest, but thou 
art possessed with a lying spirit, and ye have put off the 
int of God, that it may have no place in you; but the 
evil has power over you, and he doth carry you about, 
working devices, that he may destroy the children of God. 
And now Korihor said unto Alma, if thou wilt shew me 
a sign, that I may be convinced that there is a God, yea, 
shew unto me that he hath power, and then will I be con- 
vinced of the truth of thy words. But Alma said unto him, 
thou hast had signs enough ; will ye tempt your Ged? Will 
ye say shew unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony 
of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets! 
The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and a 1 thin de- 
note there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things 
that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion; yea, and 
also all the planets which move in their regular form, doth 
witness that there is a Supreme Creator: and yet do ye go 
about, leading away the hearts of this people, testifying 
unto them thereisnoGod? And yet will ye deny against 
all these witnesses? And he id. yea, I will deny, ex- 
cept ye shall shew mea sign. 

And now it came to pass that Alma said unto him, be 
hold, I am grieved because of the hardness of your heart; 
yea, that ye will still resist the spirit of the truth, that thy 
goul may be destroyed. But behold, it is better that thy soul 
should be lost, than that thou shouldest be the means 0 
bringing many souls down to destruction, by thy lying 
and by thy flattering worda; therefore if thou shalt deny 
again, behold, God shall smite thee, that thou shalt become 
dumb, that thou shalt never open thy mouth apy more, 
that thou shalt not deceive this people sny more. Now 
Korihor said unto him, I do not deny the existence of 8 


BOOK OF ALMA. 301 


God, but I do not believe that there is a God; and I say 
also, that ye do not know that there isa God; and except 
ye shew me a sign, I will not believe. Now Alma sad 
unto him, this will I give unto thee for a sign, that thou 
shalt be struck dumb, according to my words; and I say, 
that in the name of God, ye shall be struck dumb, that ye 
shall no more have utterance. Now when Alma had said 
these words, Korihor was struck dumb, that he could not 
have utterance, according to the words of Alma. And 
now when the chief judge saw this, he put forth his hand 
and wrote unto Korihor, saying: art thou convinced of the 
power of God? In whom did ye desire that Alma should 
shew forth his sign? Would ye that he should afflict 
others, to shew untothee a sign? Behold, he has show- 
ed unto you a sign; and now will yc dispute more? And 
Korihor put forth his hand, and wrote, saying: I know 
that I am dumb, for I cannot speak; and I know that 
nothing, save it were the power of God, could bri 
this upon me: yea, and I also knew that there was a God. 
But behold the devil hath deceived me; for he appeared. 
unto me in the form of an angel, and said unto me, go 
and reclaim this peop for they have all gone astray after 
an unknown God. And he said unto me there is no God; 
yeas and he taught me that which I should say. And I 
ave taught his words; and I taught them, because they 
were pleasing unto the carnal mind; and I taught them, 
even until I had much success, insomuch that I verily be- 
lieved that they were true; and for this cause, I withstood 
the truth, even until I have brought this great curse upon 
me. Now when he had said this, he besought that Alma 
should pray unto God, that the curse might be taken from 
him, But Alma said unto him, if this curse should be 
taken from thee, thou wouldest again lead away the hearta 
of this Pore therefore, it shall be unto thee, even as 
the Lord will. , 

And it came to pass that the curse was not taken off of 

korihor; but he was cast out, and went about from house 
to house, begging for his food. Now the knowledge of 
what had happened unto Korihor, was immediately pub- 
lished throughout all the land; yea, the proclamation was 
sent forth by the chief judge, to all the people in the land, 
declaring unto those who had believed in the words of 
Korihor, that they must speedily repent, lest the same judg- 
ments would come unto them. 

And it came to pass that they were all convinced of the 
wickedness of Korihor; —— ore they were all converted 


302 BOOK OF ALMA. 


again unto the Lord; and this put an end to the iniquity 
after the manner of Korihor. And Korihor did go about 
from house to house, begging food for his support. `` 

And it came to pass that as he went forth among the 

eople, yea, among a people who had separated themselves 

rom the Nephites, and called themselves Zoramites, being 
led by a man whose name was Zoram; and as he went 
forth amongst them, behold, he was run upon, and trodden 
down, even until he was dead; and thus we see the end 
of him who perverteth the ways of the Lord; and thus we 
see that the devil will not support his children at the last 
day, bùt doth speedily drag them down to hell.’ 

K ow it came to pass that after the end of Korihor, Alma 
having received tidings that the Zoramites were perverting 
the ways of the Lord, and that Zoram, who was their lea- 
der, was leading the hearts of the people to bow down tọ 
dumb idols, &c., his heart again began to sicken, because 
of the iniquity of the people; forit was the cause of great 
sorrow to Alma, to know of imquity among his people: 
therefore his heart was exceeding sorrowful, because of 
the separation of the Zoramites from the Nephites. Now 
the Zoramites had gathered themselves together in a land 
which they called Antionum, which was east of the land 
of Zarahemla, which lay nearly bordering upon the sea- 
shore, which was south of the land of Jershon, which also 
bordered upon the wilderness south, which wilderness was 
full of the Lamanites. Now the Nephites greatly feared 
that the Zoramites would enter into a correspondence with 
the Lamanites, and that it would be the means of great 
loss on the part of the Nephites. And now, as the preach- 
ing of the word had a great tendency to lead the people 
to do that which was just; yea, it had had more powerful 
effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or 
any thing else, which had happened unto them: therefore 
Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the 
virtue of the word of God. Therefore he took Ammon, 
and Aaron, and Omner; and Himni he did leave in the 
ehurch in Zarahemla; but the former three he took with 
him, and also Amulek and Zeezrom, who were at Melek; 
and he also took two of his sons. Now the eldest of his 
aons he took not with him; and his name was Helaman; 
but the names of those whom he took with him, were 
Shiblon and Corianton; and these are the names of those 
who went with him among the Zoramites, to preach unto 
them the word. 
` Now the Zoramites were dissenters from the Nephites; 
therefore they had the word of God preached unto them. 





ROOK OF ALMA 288 


But they had fallen into great errore, for they would nat 
observe to keep the commandments-of God, and his state 
utes, according to the law of Moses; neither wauld they 
observe the performances of the church, to continue ia 
prayer and supplication to God daily, that they might not 
enter into temptation; yea, in fine, they did pervert .the 
ways of the Lord in very many instances; therefore, for 
this cause, Alma and his brethren went into the land, to 
preach the word unto them. a 
, Now when they had come into the land, behold, tọ 
their astonishment, they found that the. Zoramites -had 
þuilt synagogues, and that they did gather themselveg 
together on one day. of the week, which day they did 
call the day of the Lord; and they did worship after ¢ 
maaner which Alma and his brethren had never ber 
held; for they had a place built up in the centre of their 
synagogue, a place for standing, which was high above 
the head; and the top thereof would only admit one pere 
sor. Therefore, whosoever desired to worship, must ge 
forth and. stand upon the top thereof, and stretch forth 
his hands towards heaven; and cry with a loud voice, say» 
ing: Holy, holy, God; we believe that thou art God, and 
we believe that thou art holy, and that thou wast a spirit, 
and that thou art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit 
forever. Holy God, we believe that thou bast separated 
us from our brethren; and we do not believe in the tradir 
tion of our brethren, which was handed down to them by 
the childishness of their fathers; but we believe that thon ` 
ast elected us to be thy holy children; and also thay hast 
made it known unto us that there shall be no Christ; but 
thou art the same, yesterday, to-day, and forever; and thoy 
hast elected us, that we shall be saved, whilst all around 
ns are elected to be cast by thy wrath down to hell; for 
the which holiness, O God, we thank thee; and we also 
thank thee that thou hast elected us, that we may not be 
led away after the foolish traditions of our brethren, which 
doth bind them down to a belief of Christ, which doth 
lead their hearts to wander far from thee, ourGod. And 
— We thank thee, O Gad, that we are a chosen and 
sholy peaplee Amen. `> . e 
_ Now it came to pass that after Alma and his brethren, 
and his sons, had heard these prayers, they were astona 
ished beyond all measure. For behold every man did go 
forth and offer up the same prayers.. Now the place wag 
called by them Rameumptom, which being interpreted, ia 
the Holy Stand. Now from this stand, they did offer up, 
every man, the self-same prayer unto God, thanking theig 


204 BOOK OF ALMA. 


God that they were chosen of him, and thet he did not 
Jead them away after the tradition of their brethren; end 
that their hearts were not stolen away to believe in things 
to come, which they knew nothing about. _- 

Now after the people had all offered up thanks after 
this manner, they returned to their homes, never speaking 
of their God again, until they had assembled themselves 
together again, to the holy stand, to offer up thanks after 
their manner. Now when Alma saw this, his heart was 
grieved: for he saw that they were a wicked and a per- 
verse people; yea, he saw that their hearts were set apot 

ld, and upon silver, and upon all manner of fine goods, 

ea, and he also saw that their hearts were lifted up unto 
great boasting, in their pride. And he lifted up his voice 
to heaven, and cried, saying: O how long, O Lord, wilt 
thou suffer that thy servants shall dwell here below in the 
flesh, to behold such gross wickedness among the chil- 
dren of men. Behold, O God, they cry unto thee, and yet 
their hearts are swallowed up in their pride. Behold, O 
God, they cry unto thee with their mouths, while they are 

uffed up, even to greatness, with the vain things of the 
world. Behold, O my God, their costly apparel, and their 
Bago and their bracelets, and their ornaments of gold, 
and all their precious things which they are ornamented 
with; and behold, their hearts are set upon them, and yet 
they cry unto thee and say, we thank thee, O God, for we 
are a chosen people unto thee, while others shall perish. 
Yea, and they say that thou hast made it known unto them, 
that there shall be no Christ. O Lord God, how long wit 
thou suffer that such wickedness and iniquity shall be 
among this people? O Lord, wilt thou give me strength, 
that I may bear with mine infirmities? for I am infirm, and 
such wickedness among this people doth pain my sow. 
O Lord, my heart is exceeding sorrowful; wilt thou com- 
fort my soul in Christ? O Lord, wilt thou grant unto mê 
that I may have strength, that I may suffer with patience 
these afflictions which shall eome upon me, because 
the iniquity of this people? O Lord, wilt thou comfort 
my soul, and give unto me success, and also my fellow- 
laborers who are with me; yea, Ammon, and Aaron, and 
Omner, and also Amulek, and Zeezrom, and also my two 
sons; yea, even all these wilt thou comfort, O Lord? Yet 
wilt thou comfort their souls in Christ? Wilt thou grant 
unto them that they may have strength, that they may best 
their afflictions which shall come upon them, because ¢ 
the injquities of this people? O Lord, wilt thou grant 
unto usthat we may have success in bringing them agai 


JOH OF ALM 2 


pno thee, in Christ? Behold, O Lord, their souls are 

precjous, and’ many of them are our brethren, therefore, 
ive unto us, O Lord, power and wisdom, that we msy 
ring these, our brethren, again unto thee. 

Now it came to pass, that when Alma had seid these 
words, that he clapped his hands upon all them who were 
withhim. And behold, as he clapped hia hands upon 
them, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. And aftes 
that, they did separate themselves one from another; 
taking na thought for themselves what they should eat, ow 
what they should drink or what they should put on. 
And the Lard provided for them that they should hunger 
not, neither should they thirst; yea, and he also gave them 
strength, that they should suffer no manner of afflictions, 
save it were swallowed up in the joy of Christ. Now this 
was s coring to the prayer of Alea and this because he 
prayed in faith. 

And it came to pass that they did go forth, and began 
te preach the word of God unto the people, entering inte 
their synagogues, and into their houses; yea, and even they 
did preach the word in their streets. And it came to pesa 
that after much labor among them, they began to have 
success among the poor class of people; for behold, they 
were cast out of the synagogues, because of the coarseness 
of their apparel; therefore they were not permitted to enter 
into their synagogues to worship God, being esteemed aa 
filthiness; therefore they were poor: yea, they were 
esteemed by their brethren as dross: therefore they were 

or as to things of the world; and also they were poor in 

eart. . 

Now as Alma was teaching and speaking unto the peo- 
ple upon the hill Onidah, there came a great, multitude 
unto him, who were these of whom we have been speak~ 
ing. of. whom were poor in heart, because of their poverty 
4s to the things of the world. And they came unto Almaș 
and the one who was the most foremost among them, said 
unte him, behold, what shall these my brethren do, for 
they are despised of all men, because of their povertys 
yea, and more especially by our priests; for they have cast 
ts out of our synagogues, which we have labored abura 
dantly to build, with our own hands; and they have cast 
us gut because of our exceeding poverty, and we have no 
place to worship out God; and behold, what shall we do? 
And now when Alma heard this, he turned him about, 
his face immediately towards him, and he beheld, with 
gteat joy; for he beheld — their afflictions had truly 


w, 
a,’ 


$06 DOOK OF ALNA. 


humbled them, and that they were in'a preparation to 
hear the word; therefore he did say no more to the ather 
multitude, but he stretched forth hie hand, and eried unto 
those whom he-beheld, who were tryly penitent, and seid 
unto them, I behold that ye are lowly in heart; and if s0, 
blesssed are ye. Behotd thy brother hath said, whet shall — 
we do? for we are cast out of our synagogues, that we § 
cannot worship our God. Behold, I say unto you, do ye 
suppose that ye cannot worship God, save it be in your 
synagogues only? And moreover, I would ask, do yesup- 
pose that ye must not worship God only once in a week! 
say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out of your syna- 
-gogues, that ye may be humble, and that ye may lesm 
wisdom; for it is necessary that ye should learn wisdom; 
for it is because that ye are cast out, that ye are despised 
of your brethren, because of your exceeding poverty, that 
ye are brought to a lowliness of heart; for ye are neces- 
sarily brought to be humble. And now because ye are 
compelled to be humble, blessed are ye; for a man some- 
times, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh repent- 
anee; and now surely, whosoever repenteth, shall find 
mercy; and he that findeth mercy and endureth to the end, 
the same shall be saved. And now as I said unto you, 
that because ye were compelled to be humble, ye were 
blessed, do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who 
truly humble themselves because of the word? Yea, he 
that truly humbleth himself, and repenteth of his sins, and 
endureth to the end, the same shall be blessed; yea, mue 
more blessed than they who are eompelled to be humble, 
because of their exceeding poverty; therefore bleesed are 
they who humble themselves without being compelled to 
be humble; or rather, in other words, blessed is he that 
believeth in the word of God, and is baptized without 
stubborness of heart; yea, without being brought to know 
the word, or even compelled to know, before they will be» 
lieve. Yea, there are many who do say, if thou will show 
unto us a sign from heaven, then we shall know of # 
surety; then we shall believe. Now I ask is thie faith? 
Behold, I say unto you, nay; for if a man knoweth a thing, 
he hath no cause to believe, forhe knoweth it. And now, 
how much more cursed is he that knoweth the will of 
God and doeth it not, than he that only believeth, or only. 
hath cause to believe, and falleth into transgression? 
Now of this thing, ye must jue Behold, I say unto 
you, that it is on the one hand, even as it is on the other; 
and it shall be unto every man according to his work. 
_ And now as I said concerning faith: Faith, is net to 


` 








' POOK OP ALMA. ' 307 


have x perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have 
faith, ye hope for things which are not seen, which are 
true. And now, behold, I say unto you; and I would that 
fe should remember that God is merciful unto all who be- 
eve on his name: therefore he desireth, in the first place, 
that ye should believe, yea, even on his word. And now, 
he imparteth his word by angels, unto men; yea, not only 
men, but women also. Now this is not all: little children 
do have words given unto them many times, which con- 
found the wise and the learned. — 
And now, my beloved brethren, as ye have desired to 
know of me what ye shall do because ye are afflicted and 
,east ont; now I do not desire that ye should suppose that 
I mean to judge you only according to that which is true; 
for I do not mean that ye all of you have been compelled 
to humble yourselves; for I verily believe that there are 
some among you who would humble themselves, let them 
be in whatsoever circumstances they might. Now as I 
said concerning faith—that it was not a perfect knowledge, 
even so it ie with my words. Ye cannot know of their 
surety at first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a 
perfect knowledge. But behold, if ye will awake and 
arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my 
words, and exercise a particle of faith; yea, even if ye can 
no more, than desire to believe, let thie desire work in you, 
even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place 
for a portion of my words. Now we will compare the 
word unto a seed. Now if ye give place, that a seed may 
be planted in your heart, behold, if it be a true seed, or a 
seed, if ye do not cast it out b be unbelief, that ye 
will resist the spirit of the Lord, behold, it will begin to 
swell within your breasts; and when you feel these swell- 
ing motions, ye will begin to say within yourselves, it 
must needs be that this is a good seed, or that tho word ie 
for it beginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it begin- 
neti to enlighten my understanding; yea, and it beginneth 
to be delicious to me. Now behold, would not this in- 
Grease your faith? I say unto, yea; nevertheless it hath 
— — up to a perfect knowledge. But behold, as the 
seed sweileth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow then 
ye must needs say, that the seed is good; for behold it 
swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow. And 
now behold, are ye sure that this isa good seed? I say 
unto you, yea; for every seed bringeth forth unto its own 
likensas; therefore, if a seed groweth, it is good, but if it 
groweth not, behold, it is not good; therefore it is cast 
away. And'now, behold, because ye have tried the ex- 


30g ROOK OF ALMA 


periment, and planted the seed, and it swelleth, pad apathy 
eth, and — to grow, ye must needs know thatthe 
seed is good. And now behold, is your knowedge pet- 
fect? Yea, your knowledge is perfect in that thing, and 
our faith isdormant; and this because you know; for ye 
ow that the word hath swelled your souls, and ye 
also know that it hath sprouted up, that your understand- 
ing doth begin to be enlightened, and your mind doth be 
gin to expand. O then, ia notthis real? I say unto, yea; 
because it is light; and whatsoeveris light, is good, because 
it is discernible; therefore ye must know that it is good. 
And now behold, after ye have tasted thie light, ia your 
knowledge perfect? Behold, I say unto you, nay; neither 
must re lay aside your faith, for ye have-only exercised 
your faith to plant the seed, that ye might try the expeli- 
ment, to know if the seed was good. And behold, as the 
tree beginneth to grow, ye will say, let us nourish it with 
great care, that it may get root, that it may grow up,and 
ring forth fruit unto us. And now behold, if ye nourish 
it with much care, it will get root, and grow up, and bring 
forth fruit. But if ye neglect the tree, and take no thought 
for its nourishment, behold, it will not get any root; ead 
when the heat of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, be- 
cause it hath no root, it withers away, and ye pluck it up 


and castit out. Now this is not because the seed wag not: 


ood neither is it because the fruit thereof would not ba 
irable. But it is beoause your ground ia -barren, and 
yo will not nourish the tree; therefore ye cannot haye the 
fuit thereof. And thus if .ye will not nourish the werd, 
looking forward with an eye of faith to the fruit thereof, 
ye can never pluck of the fruit of the tree of life. But if. 
ye will nourish the word, yea, nourish the tree as it begin- 
neth to grow, by your faith with great diligence, and with 
patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall sake 
root; and behold, it shall be a tree springing up unto ever 
lasting life; and hecause of your diligence, and your faith, 
and your patience with the word, in nourishing it, that i 
may take root in you, behold, by and by, ye shall pluck 
the fruit thereof, which is most precious, which is sweet 
above all that is sweet, and which ia white above all thst 
is white; yea, and pure above all that is pure; and ye shal} 
feast upon this fruit, even until ye are filled, that ye 
hunger not, neither shall ye thirst. Then my brethren yo 
shall reap the rewards of your faith, and your diligence, 
and patience, and long suffering, waiting for the tree ta 
bring forth fruit unto you. 
- low after Alma had spoken these words, they aent fem 





o- w 


BOOK OF ALMA 309 


unto him desiring to know whether they should believe in 
one God, that they might obtain this fruit of which he had 
spoken, or how they should plant the seed, or the word, of 
which he had spoken, which he said must be planted in their 
hearta; or in what manner they should begin to exercise 
theirfaith? And Alma said unto them, behold ye have said 
that ye could not worship your God, because ye are cast 
out of your synagogues. But behold, I say unto you, if ye 
suppose that ye cannot worship God, ye do greatly err, and 
ye ought to search the scriptures; if ye suppose that they 

ave taught you this, ye do not understand them. Do yo 
remember to have read what Zenos, the prophet of old, has 
said concerning prayer or worship? for he said, thou art 
merciful O God for thou bast heard my prayer, even when 
I was in the wilderness; yea, thou wast merciful when I 
— concerning those who were mine enemies, and thou 

idet turn them tome: yea, O God, and thou wast merciful 
unto me when I did cry unto thee in my field; when I did 
cry unto thee in my prayer, and thou didsthear me. And 
again, O God, when I did turn to my house thou didst 
hear me in my prayer. And when I did turn unto my 
closet, O Lord, and prayed unto thée, thou didst hear me; 
yea, thou art merciful unto thy children when they cry 
unto thee to be heard of thee, and not of men, and thou 
wilt hear them; yea, O God thou hast been merciful unto 
me and heard my cries in the midst of thy congregations; 
yea, and thou hast also heard me when I have been cast out, 
and have. been despised by mine enemies; yea, thou didst 
hear my cries, and wast angry with mine enemies, and thow 
didst visit them in thine anger, with speedy destruction; 
and thou didst hear me because of mine afflictions and my 
sincerity; and it is because of thy Son that thou hast been 
thus merciful unto me; therefore I will cry unto thee in all 
mine afflictions; for in thee is my joy; for thou hast turned 
thy jugdments away from me, because of thy Son. 

Aag now Alma said unto them, do ye believe those 
scriptures which have been written by them of old? Be- 
hold, if ye do, ye must believe what Zenos said; for be- 
hold, he said, thou hast turned away thy jadgments, be- 
cause of thy Son. Now behold, my brethren, Í would ask, 
if ye have read the scriptures? If ye have, how can ye 
disbelieve on the Son of God? For it is not written that 
Zenos alone spake of these things, but Zenock also spake 
ofthese things; for behold, he said, thou art angry, O Lord, 
with this people, because they will not understand of thy 
mercies w ich thou hast bestowed upon them, because 
of thy Son. And now my brethren, ye see that a second 


a0. BOOK OF, ALMA. 
prophet of old has testified of the San of God; and because, 
the people would not understand his words, they stoned 
him to death. But behold, this is not all; these are not 
the only ones who have spoken concerning the Son of God. 
Behold, he was spoken of by Moses; yea, and behold, a 
type was raised up in the wilderness, that whosoever would 
look upon it might live. And many did look and live. 
But few understood the meaning of those things, and this 
because of the hardness of their hearts. But there were 
many who were so hardened that they would not look ; there- 
fore they perished. Now the reason they would not look, 
was because they did not believe that it would heal them. 
O my brethren, if ye could be healed by merely casting 
about your eyes, that ye might be healed, would ye not 
behold quickly, or would e rather harden your hearts ia 
unbelief, and be slothfyl, that ye would not cast about your 
eyes, that ye might perish? If so, wo shall come upon 

ou; but if not so, then cast about your eyes and begin to 

élieve in the Son of God, that he will come to redeem his 
people, and that he shall suffer and die to atone for their 
sins; and that he shall rise again from the dead, which 
shal] bring to pass the resurrection, that all men shall stand 
before him, to be judged, at the last and judgment day, ac- 
— to their works. And now my brethren, I desire that 
ye shall plant this word in your hearts, and as it beginneth 
to swell, even so nourish it by your faith. And behold, it 
will become a tree, springing up in you unto everlasting 
life. And then may God grant unto you that your burdens 
may be light, through the joy of hisSon. And even all 
this can ye do, if ye will. Amen. 

And now it came to pass that after Alma had spoken 
these words unto them, he sat down upon the ground, and 
Amulek arose and began to teach them, saying, my breth- 
ren, I think that it is impossible that ye should be igno- 
rant of the things which have been spoken concerning 
the coming of Christ, who is taught by us to be the Son 
of God; yea, I know that these things were taught unto 
you, bountifully, before your dissension from among us, 
and as ye have desired of my beloved brother, that he 
should make known unto you what ye should do, because 
of your afflictions; and he hath spoken somewhat unto 
you to prepare your minds; yea, and he hath exhorted you 
unto faith, and to patience; yea, even that ye would have 
so much faith as even to plant the word in your hearts, 
that ye may try the experiment of its goodness; and we 
have beheld that the great question which is in your 
minds, is whether the word be in the Son of God, or 





ee ee ee Se eee a ee eS ae A TY © - Ww 


DOOK OF ALMA. %1 


whether there shall be no Christ. And ye also beheld that 
my brother Hes proven unto you, in many instances, that the 
word is in Christ, unto salvation. My brother has called 
upon the words of Zenos, that redemption cometh through 
the Son of God, and also upon the words of Zenock: and 
also he has appealed unto Moses, to prove that these things 
are true. And now behold, I will testify unto you of my- 
self, that these thing are true. Behold, I gay unto you, 
that Í doknow that Christ shall come among the ehildren of 
men, to take upon him the transgressions of his people, 
and that he shall atone for the sins of the world; for the 
Lord God has spoken it; for it is expedient that an atone- 
ment should be made; for accordidg to the great plan of 
the eternal God, there must be an atonement made, or else 
all mankind must unavoidably perish; yea, all are har- 
dened; yea, all are fallen, and. are lost, and must perish 
except it be through the atonement which it is expedient 
should be made; for it is expedient that there should be a 
great and last sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, nei- 
ther of beast, neither of any manner of fowl; for it shall 
not be a human sacrifice: but it must be an infinite and 
eternal sacrifice. Now there is not any man that can sa- 
crifice his own blood, which will atone for the sins of an- 
other. Now if a man murdereth, behold, will our law, 
which is just, take the life of his brother? I say unto 
you, nay.. But the law requireth the life of him who hath 
murdered; therefore there can be nothing, which is short 
of an infinite atonement, which will suffice for the sins of 
the world; therefore it is expedient that there should be 
a great and last sacrifice; and then shall there be, or it is 
expedient there should be, a stop to the shedding of bloods 
then shall the law of Moses be fulfilled; yea, it shall all be 
fulfilled; every jot and tittle, and none shall have passed 
away. And behold, this is the whole meaning of the law; 
every whit pointing to that great and last sacrifice; and 
that great and last sacrifice will be the Son of God; yea, 
infinite and eternal; and thus he shall bring salvation to 
all those who shall believe on his name; this being the 
intent of this last sacrifice, to bring about’ the bowels of 
mercy, which overpowereth justice and bringeth about 
means unto men that they may have faith unto repentance. 
And thus mercy can satisfy the demands of justice, and 
encircles them in the arms of safety, while he that exerci- 
ses no faith unto repentance, is exposed to the whole law 
of the demands of justice; therefore, only unto him that 
has faith unto repentance, is brought about the great and 
eternal pláñ of redemption. Therefore may God grant 


=—- ~ ww 


Sis j DOOK: OF ALMA, 


unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exerciag yor 
faith ey Fapentenoe: that aA bema to call upon.his {oly 
hame, that he would have mercy upon you; yea, cry unto 
him for mercy; for he is aight to save; yea, humble 
poas and continue in prayer unto him; cry unto 

im when ye are in your fields; yea, over all your flocks; 
cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, 
both morning, mid-day, and evening; yea, cry unto him 
against the power of your enemies; yea, cry unto him 
against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. 
Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may 
prosper in them: ery over the flocks of your fields, that 
they may increase. But this is not all: ye must pour out 
your souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in 
pa wilderness; yea, and when you do not cry unto the 

ord, let your hearts be full, drawn outin prayer unto him 
continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of 
those who are around you. 

And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do 
not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all 
these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, 
and visit not the sick and the afflicted, and impart of your 
sr.bstance if ye have, to those who stand in need; I say 
unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your 
pare is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as 

ypocrites who do deny the faith; therefore if ye do oot 
remember to be charitable, ye are as dross, which the re 
finers do cast out, (it being of no worth,) and is trodden 
undcr foot of men. 

And now, my brethren, I would that after ye have te- 
ceived so many witnesses, seeing that the holy scriptures 
testify of these things, come forth and bring fruit unto re 
pentance; yea, I would that ye would came forth and har- 
den not your hearts any longer; for behold, now is the 
time, and the day of your salvation; and therefore, if ye 
will repent and harden not your hearts, immediately shall 
the great ar of redemption be brought about unto you. 
For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet 
God: eA; behold, the day of this life is the day for men 
to perform their labors, And now as I said unto you be- 
fore, as ye have had so many witnesses, therefore I be- 
seech of you, that ye do not procrastinate the day of your 
repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which 
is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not 
improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night 
of darkness, wherein their can be no labor performe 
Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, 


BOCK -OP ALMA, ht 


at E wiR tepent, that I will retarn to my God. Nay, ye 
éannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess 
your bodies at the time thet ye go out of this life, that 
same spirit will have power to possess your body in that 
eternal world. For behold, if ye have procrastinated the 
day of your repentance, even until death, behold, ye heve 
become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth 
seal you his; therefore the spirit of the Lord hath witha 
drawn from you, and hath noplace in you, and the devil 
rath all power over you; and this is the fina] state of the 
b wicked. And this I know, because the Lord hath said, 
lie dweileth not in unholy temples, but in the hearts of the 
righteous doth he dwell; yea, and he has also said, that 
the righteous shall sit down in his kingdom, to go no more 
out; but their garments should be made white, through 
the blood of the Lamb. 

And now my beloved brethren, I desire that ye should 
remember these things, and that ye should work out your 
salvation with fear before Ged, and that ye should no more 
deny the coming of Christ; that ye contend no more 
against the Holy Ghost, but that ye receive it, and take 
upon you the name of Christ; that ye humble yourselves 
even to the dust, and worship God in whatsoever place ye 
may be in, in spirit and in truth; and that ye live in thanks- 
giving daily, for the many mercies and blessings which he 

oth bestow upon you; yea, and I also exhort you, my 
brethren, that ye be watehful unto prayer continually, 
that ye may not be led away by the temptation of the 
devil, that he may not overpower you, that ye may not be- 
‘come his subjeets at the last day: for behold, he reward- 
eth you no good thing. And now my heloved brethren, 
I would exhort you to have patience, and that ye bear 
‘with all manner of afflictions; that ye do not revile against 
those who do cast you out because of your exceeding pov- 
erty, lest ye become sinners like unto them; but that ye 
have patience, and bear with those afflictions, with a firm 
hope that ye shall one day rest from all your afflictions. 
ow it came to pass that after Amulek had made an 
end of these words, they withdrew themselves from the 
multitude, and came over into the land of Jershon; yea, 
and the rest of the brethren, after they had preached the 
word unto the Zoramites, also came over into the land of 

Jershon. 

And it came to pass that after the more popular part of 
the Zoramites had consulted together concerning the 
words which had been preseoee unto them, they were an- 


aE 


314 BOOK OF ALMA. 


gy because of the word, for it did destroy their. craft; 
therefore they would not hearken, unto the words. And 
they sent and gathered together throughout all the lend, 
all the people, and consulted with them concerning the 
words which had been spoken. Now their rulers, and 
their priests, and their teachers, did not let the people know 
concerning their desires; therefore they found out privily 
the minds of all the people.” F 

And it came to pass that after they had found owt the 
minds of all the people, those who were in favor of the 
words which had been spoken by Alma and his brethzén, 
were cast out of the — and they were many, and they 
came over also into the land of Jershon. goi 

And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did min- 
ister unto them, Now the people of the Zoramites were 
angry with the people of Ammon who were in Jershon, 
and the chief ruler of the Zoramites being a very wicked 
man, sent over unto the people of Ammon desiring them 
that they should cast out of their land all those who came 
over from them into their land. And he breathed out many 
threatenings against them. And now the people of Am- 
mon did not fear their words, therefore the did not cast 
them out, but they did receive all the poor of the Zoramites 
that came over unto them; and they did nourish them, and 
did clothe them, and did give unto them Janda for their in- 
heritance; and they did administer unto them according 
to their wants. Now this did stir up the Zoramites to an- 
ger against the people of Ammon, and they began to mix 
with the Lamanites, and to stir them up also to anger 
against them; and thus the Zoramites and the Lamanites 
began to make preparations for war against the people of 
Ammon, and also against the Nephites, And thus ended 
the seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, over the 
people of Nephi. i i 

And the people of Ammon departed out of the land of 
Jershon, and came over into the land of Melek, and gave 
place in the land of Jershon for the armies of the Nephites, 
that they might contend with the armies of the Lamanites, 
and the armies of the Zoramites; and thus commenced t 
war betwixt the Lamanites and the Nephites, in the eigh- 
teenth year of the reign of the judges; and an account shall 
be piven of their wars hereafter. And Alma, and Ammon, 
and their brethren, and also the two sons of Alma, retum- 
‘ed to the land of Zarahemla, after having been instruments 
in the hands of God of bringing many of the Zoramites to Te- 
pentance; and as many as were brought to repentance, were 
driven out of their land; but they have lands for thearinhent- © 








— ——— Ce Re — 


BOOK OF ALMA. s 


ance in the land of Jershon, and they have taken up a 
to defend themselves, and their wives, and children, a 
their lands. Now Alma, being grieved for theiniquity ofh 
people, yea for the wars, and * bloodsheds, and the com 
tentions which were among them; and having been to de 
clare the word, or sent to declare the word, among all thd 
people in every city; and seeing that the hearta of the peo 
le began to wax hard, and that they began to be offended 
use of the strictness of the word, his heart was exceeds 
ing sorrowful; therefore, he caused that his sons should be 
phere together, that he might give unto them every one 
is charge, separately, concerning the things pertaining 
unto righteousness. And we have an account of his come 
onea which he gave unto them according to his own 
Tecor e 


— p 


q — = rr ay 


CHAPTER XVII. 
The commandments of Alma, to his son Helaman. 


My son, give ear to my words; for I swear unto you, that 
inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God, ye 
shall prosper in the land. I would that ye should do as I 
have done, in remembering the captivity of our fathers; for 
they were in bondage, and none conld deliver them, ex- 
cept it was the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and 
the God of Jacob: and he surely did deliver them in their 
affictiona. And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art 
in thy youth, and therefore I beseech of thee that thou wilt 
hear my words, and learn of me; for I do know that who- 
soever shall put their trust in God, shall be supported in 
their trials, and their troubles, and their afflictions, and 
shall be lifted up at the last day; and I would not that ye 
think that I know of myself, not of the temporal, but of 
the spiritual; not of the carnal mind, but of God. Now 
behold I say unto you, if I had not been born of God, I 
should not have known these things; but God has, by the 
mouth of his holy angel, made these things known unto 
me, not of any worthiness of myself, for I went about with 
the sons of Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church of God; 
but behold, God sent his holy angel to stop us by the way. 
And behold, he spake unto us, as it were the voice of thun- 
der, and the whole earth did tremble beneath our feet, and 
we all fell to the earth, for the fear of the Lord came upon 


31 BOOK QF abMA. 


us. But behold, the voice said unto me, arise. And f 
arose and stood up, and beheld the angel. And he sid 
note me, if thou wilt of thyself be destroyed, seok no more 
to destroy the church of God. 

. And it came to pass that I fell to the earth; and it was 
for the space of three days and three nights, that I could 
not open my mouth; neither had I the use of my limbs. 
And the angel — more things unto me, which were 
heard by my brethren, but I did not hear them; for when 
I heard the words, if thou wilt be destroyed of thyself, 
seek no more to destroy the chureh of God, I was struck 
with such great fearand amazement, lest perhaps I shouldbe 
destroyed, that I fell-to the earth, and I did hear no more; 
but I was racked with eternal torment, for my soul was 
harrowed up to the greatest degree, and racked with all 
my sins. Yea, I did remember all my sins and iniquities, 
for which I was tormented with the pains of hell; yea,! 
saw that I had rebelled against my God, and that I had not 
kept his holy commandments; yea, and I had murdered 
many of his children, or rather led them away unto de- 
struction; yea, and in fine, so great had been my iniqui- 
ties, that the very thought of coming into the presence of 
my God, did rack my soul with inexpressible horror. 0, 
thought J, that I could be banished and become extinct 
both soul and body, that I might not be brought to stand 
in the — of my God, to be judged of my deeda. And 
now, for three days and for three nighta was 1 racked, even 
with the pains of a damned soul, 

And it came to pass that as I was thus racked with tor- 
ment, while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many 
sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father 

rophesy unto the people, concerning the coming of one 
esus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world, 
. Now as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried 
within my heart, O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on 
me, who art in the gall of bitterness, and art encircled 
about by the everlasting chains of death. And now be- 
hold, when I thought this, I could remember my pains no 
more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins 
no more. And O, what joy, and what marvelous hght I 
did behold; yea, my soul was filled with joy as exceeding 
8 was my pain; yea, I say unto you, my son, that there 
could be nothing so exquisite and so bitter, as was my 
pains. Yea, and again I say unto you, my son, that on the 
other hand, there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as 


was my AA ; yea, me thonght I saw even as our father Le- 


hi saw, God sitting upon his throne, susrounded with nume 














— ay 


BOOK OF ALMA 317 


berleas concourees of angels, in the attitude of singing and 
— God; yea, and my soul did long to be there, 
ut behold, my limbs did receive their strength again, and 
I stood upon my feet, and did manifest unto the people that 
I bad been born of God; yea, and from that time, even un- 
til now, I have labored without ceasing, that I might brin 
souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste o 
the exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might 
also be born of God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. 
Yea, and now behold, O my son, the Lord doth give me 
exceeding great joy in the fruit of my labors; for because 
of the word which he has imparted unto me, beheld, man 
have been born of God, and have tasted as I have tasted, 
and have seen eye to eye, as I have seen; therefore they 
do know of these things of which I have spoken, as I do 
know; and the knowledge which I have is of God. And 
I have been supported under trials and troubles of every 
kind, yea, and in all manner of afflictions; yea, God has 
delivered me from prison, and from bonds, and from death; 
yea, and I do put my trust in him, and he will still deliver 
me; and I know that he will raise me up at the last day, 
to dwell with himin glory; yea, and I will praise him for- 
ever, for he has brought our fathers out of Egypt, and he 
bas swallowed up the Egyptians in the Red Sea; and he 
led them by his power into the promised land; yea, and he 
has delivered them out of bondage and captivity, from time 
to time; yea, and he has also brought our fathers out of 
the land of Jerusalem; and he has also, by his everlasting 
‘power, delivered them ‘out of bondage and captivity, from 
time to timo, even down to the present day; and I have 
always retained in remembrance their captivity: yea, and 
ye also ought to retain in remembrance, as I have done, 
their captivity. But behold, my son, this is not all; for ye 
ought to know, as I do know, that inasmuch as ye shall 
peep the commandments of God, ye shall prosper in the 
land; and ye ought to know also, that inasmuch as ye will 
not keep the commandments of God, ye shall be cut off 
rom his presence. Now this is according to his word. 
And now my son Helaman, I command you that ye take 
the records which have been entrusted with me; and I 
so command you that ye keep a record of this people, 
according as I have done, upon the plates of Nephi, and 
keep all these things sacred which I have kept, even as I 
have kept them: for it is for a wise purpose that they are 
kept; and these plates of brass which contain these en- 
gtavings, which have the — of the holy scriptures 


2i JOK OF ALMA 


upon them, which have the genealogy of our forafethem, 
even from the beginning. And behold, it has been proph- 
esied by our fathers, that they should be kept and han- 
ded down from one generation to another, and be kept and 

eserved by the hand of the Lord, until they should ga 

rth unto every nation, kindred, tongue and peaple, that 
they shall know of the mysteries contained thereon. And 
now behold, if they are kept, they must retain their bright- 
mess; yea, and they will retain their brightness; yea, and 
also shall all the plates which do contain that which ig 


holy writ. Now ye may suppose that this is foolishnessin . 


me; but behold I say unto you, that by small and simple 
things, are great things, brought to pass; and small means 
in many instance, doth confound the wise. And the Lord 
God doth work by means to bring about his great and 
eternal purport; and by very small means the Lord doth 
confound the wise, and bringeth. about the salvation of 
many souls. And now, it haz hitherto been wisdom in 
God, that these things should he preserved: for behold, 
they have enlarged the memory of this people, yea, and 
convinced many of the error of their ways, and brought 
them to the knowledge of their God, unto the salvation of. 
their souls. Yéa,I say unto you, were it not for these 
things that these records do contain, which are on theaa 
plates, Ammon and his brethren could not have convinced 
so many thousands of the Lamanites, of the incorrect tra- 
dition of theit fathers; yea, these records and their words, 
brought them unto repentance; that is, they brought them 
to the knowledge of the Lord their-God, and to rejoice in 
Jesus Christ their Redeemer. And who knoweth but what 
‘they will be the means of bringing many thousande of 
them, yea, and also many thousands of our stiffnecked 
brethren, the Nephites, who are now hardening their 
hearts, in sin and iniquities, to the knowledge of their 
Redeemer? Now these mysteries are not yet fully made 
known unto me; therefore I shall forbear. And it may 
suffice, if I only say, they are preserved for a wise purpose, 
which purpoge is known unto God: for he doth counsel 
in wisdom over all his works, and his paths are straight, 
and his course is one eternal round. O remember, re- 
member, my son Helaman,, how strict are the command- 
ments of God. And he ssid, if ye will keep my com- 
mendments, ye shall prosper in the land; but if ye keep 
not his commandments, ye shall be cut off from his pre 
sénce. And now remember, my son, that God has. 

trusted you with these things, which are sacred, which 
he has kept sacred, and also which he will keep aud pre- 








] 


ES a a eT a E ee ee eae ee BOSE Secs eA SO 


BDOK oF ALMA. 310 


serve fot a wise purpose in him, that he may show forth 
his power unto future generations. 
i And now behold, I tell you by the apirit of prophecy, that 
åf ye transgress the commandments of God, behold, these 
things which are sacred, shall be taken away from you by 
the power of God, and ye shall be delivered up unto satan, 
that he- may sift you as chaff before the wind; but if ye 
keep the commandments of God, and do with these things 
which are sacred, according to that which the Lord doth 
®ommand you, (for you must appeal unto the Lord for all 
things whatsoever ye must do with them,) behold no 
power of earth or hell can take them from you, for God is 
paro to the fulfilling of all his words; for he will fale 
all his promises which he shall make unto you, for he 
has fulfilled his promises which he has made unto our 
fathere. For he promised unto them that he would re- 
serve these things for a wise purpose in him, that he might 
shew forth his power unto future generations. 
. And now behold, one purpose hath he fulfilled, even to 
the restoration of many thousands of the Lamanites to the 
knowledge of the truth; and he hath shewn forth his 
wer in them, and he will also still shew forth his power 
them, unto future generations; therefore they shall be 
preserved; therefore 1 command you, my son Helaman, 
that ye be diligent in fulfilling all my words, and that ye 
be diligent in keeping the commendmentsof God, as they 
are written. 
And now, I will speak unto you concerning those twen- 
7 four plates, that ye keep them, that the mysteries and 
e works of darkness, and their secret works, or the 
secret works of those people, who have been destroyed, 
may be made manifest unto this — yea, all their mur- 
ders,and rabbings, and their plunderings, and all their wick- 
edness, and abominations, may be made manifest unto this 
eople; yea, and that ye preserve these directors. For, be- 
10ld, the Lord saw that his people began to work in dark- 
ness, yea, work secret murders and abominations; there- 
fore the Lord said, if they did not repent, they should be 
destroyed from: off the face of the earth. And the Lord 
said, will repare unto my servant Gazelem, a stone, 
which shall shine forth in-darkness unto light, that I may 
discover unto my people who serve me, that I may dis- 
cover unto them the works of their brethren; yea, their 
secret works, their works of darkness, and their wicked- 
nese and abominations. And now my son, these directors 
were prepared, that the word of God might be fulfilled, 
whith-he spake, sayings I will bring forth out of darkness 


a0 BOOK OF AINA. 


vinto ight, all their secret works and their abominaticus: . 
and except they repent, I will destroy them: from off the 
face of the earth; and I will bring to light all their secrets 


and abominations, unto every nation that shall hereafter 


possess the land. And now my son, we see that they did 
hot repent; therefore they have been destroyed, and thus 
far the word of God has been fulfilled; yea, their secret 
abominations have been brought out of darkness, and 
made known unto us. — 

And now my son, I command you that ye retain all 
their oaths, and their covenants, and their agreements in 
their secret abominations; yea, and all their signs ead 
their wonders ye shall retain from this people, that they 
know them not, lest peradventure they should fall into 
darkness also, and be destroyed. For-bebold, there isa 
curse upon all this land, that déstruction shall come upon 
all those workers of darkness, according to the power of 
God, when they are fully ripe; therefore I desire that this 
people might not be destroyed. Therefore ye shali keep 
these secret plans of their oaths and their covenants from 
this people, and only their wickedness, and their murders, 
and their abominations, shall ye make known unto them: 
and ye shall teach them to abhor such wickedness, and 
abominations, and murders; and ye shall also teach them, 
that these people were destroyed on account of their wiek- 
ness, and abominations, and their murders. For behold, 
they murdered all the prophets of the Lord who came 
among them to declare unto them concerning their iniqui- 
ties; and the blood of those whom they murdered, did ery 
unto the Lord their God, for vengeance upan those who 
were their murderers; and thus thé judgments of God did 
come upon those workers of darkness and secret combi- 
nations; yea, and cursed be the land forever and ever unto 
those workers of darkness and secret combinations, even 
unto destruction, except they repent before they are fully 
ripe. 

And now my son, remember the words which I have 
spoken unto you: trust not those secret plans unto this 
people, but teach them an everlasting hatred against sin 
and iniquity; preach unto them repentance, and faith on 
the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to humble themseltes, 
and to be meek and lowly in heart; teach them to with- 
stand every temptation of the devil, with their faith on 
the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to never be weary o 
good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart: for such 
shall finc rest to their souls. Q remember my son, and 
learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, leara in thy youth te 








SOR OF ALIIA. Sm 


"keep the commandments of God; yea, and.cry unto God 
for all thy support; yea, let all thy doings be unto the 
Lerd, and whithersoever thou goest, let it be in the Lord; 
yea, let thy thoughts he directed unto the Lord; yea, let 
the affections of thy heart be placed: upon the Lord fose 
ever; counsel the Lord in ali thy doings, and he will direct 

` thee for good: yea, when thou liest down at night, lie 

‘down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your 

sleep; and when thou risest in the morning, let thy heart 
be full of thanks unto God: and if ye do these things, ye 
shal! be lifted up at the last day. And now my son, I 
have somewhat to say concerning the thing which our 
fathers call a ball, or director; or our fathers called it 
liahona, which is, being interpreted, a compass; and the 
Lord prepared it. And: behold, there cannot any man 
work after the manner of so curious a workmanship. And 
behold, it was prepared to shew unto our fathers the course 
which they should travel in the wilderness; and it did 
work for them according to their faith in God; therefore 
if they had faith to believe that God could cause that 
those spindles should point the way they should go, be» 
hold, it was done; therefore they had this miracle, and 
also many other miracles wrought by the power of God, 
day. by day; nevertheless, because those miracles were 
‘worked by smali means, it did shew unto them marvelous 
works, They were slothful, and forgot to exercise their 
fuith and — and then those marvelous works cenge 
ed, and they did not progress in their journey: therefore 
they tatried in the wilderness, or did not travel a direct 
course, and were afflicted with hunger and thirst, because 
of their transgressions. 

- And now my son, I would that ye should understand 

that these things are not without a shadow; for as our 

fathers were slothful to give need to this compass, (now 
thesc things were temporal,) they did not prosper; even 
so it is with things which are spiritual. For behold. it is 

'as easy to give eed to the word of Christ, which will 

point to you a straight course to eternal bliss, as it was 

for our fathers to give heed to this compass, which would 

‘point unto them a straight course, to the promised land. 

And now I say, is there not a type in this thing? For 

just os surely as this director did bring our fathers, b 

following its course, to the promised land, shall the words 

of Christ, if we follow their course, carry us beyond this 

vale of sorrow, into a far better land of promise. l 

O my son, do not let us be slothful because of the easi- 

'neseof the way; for so was it with our fathers; for sa was 


sat BOOK ‘OF ALMA. 


it prepared for them, that if they would look, they might ` 
live; even so it is with us. The way is prepared, and if 
we will look, we may live forever. And now my son, see 
that ye take care of these sacred things; yen, see that ye 
look to God and live. Go unto this people, and declare 
the word, and be sober. My son farewell. 


—)+or— 


CHAPTER XVIII. 
The commandments of Alma, to his son Shiblon. 


My soni, give ear to my words; for I say unto you, even as I 
said unto Helaman, thatinasmuch as ye shall keep the com- 
mandments of God, ye shail prosper in the land; and inas- 
much as ye will not keep the commandments of God, ye shall 
be cast off from his presence. And now my son, I trust that 
I shall have great joy in you, because of your steadiness and 
your faithfalness unto God; for as you have commenced in 
your youth, to look tothe Lord yourGod, even so I hope that 
you will continue in keeping his commandments: for bless- 
ed is he that endureth to the end. I say unto you my son, 
that I have had great joy in thee already, because of thy 
faithfulness, and thy diligence, and thy patience, and th 
long suffering among the peopleof the Zoramites. For 
know that thou wastin bonds; yea, and I also knew that thou 
wast stoned for the word’s sake; and thou didst bear all 
these things with patience, because the Lord was with thee; 
and now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee. 
And now my son Shiblon, I would that ye should re- 

member that as much as ye shall Hoe your trust in God, 
even so much ye shall be delivered out of your trials, end 
your troubles, and your afflictions; and * shall be lifted ap 
at the last day. Now my son, I would not that ye should 
think that I know these things of myself, but it is the spirit 
of God which is in me, which maketh these things known 
unto me: forif I had not been bora of God, I should not have 
known these things. . But behold, the Lord in his great mor- 
cy sent his angel to declare unto me, that I must stop the 
work of destruction among his people; yea, and I have seen 
an angel face to face; and he spake with me, and his voice 
was as thunder, and it shook the whole earth. 

_And it came to pass that I was three days and three 
nights in the most bitter pain and anguish of soul; and 
never, until I did cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ for 








BOOK OF ALI, 


mercy, did I receive a remission of my sins. But behold, 
I did cry unto him, and I did find peace to my soul. 
And now my son, I have told you this, that ye may 
learn wisdom, that ye may learn of.me that there is no 
other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only in 
and through Chriet. Behold, he is the life and the light 
of the world. Behold, he is the word of truth and right- 
eousness. And now, as ye have begun to teach the word, 
even so. I would that ye should continue to teach; and 
I would that ye would be diligent and temperate in all 
things. See that ye are not lifted up unto pride: yea, see 
that ye do not boast in your own wisdom, nor of your much 
strength; use boldness, but not overbearance; and also 
‘gee that ye bridle all your passions, that ye may be filled 
with love; see that ye refrain from idleness; do not pray 
as the Zoramites do, for ye have seen that they pray to be 
heard of men, and ta be praised for their wisdom. Do not 
say, O God, I thank thee that we are better than our breth- 
ren; but rather Bay O Lord, forgive my unworthiness, 
and remember my brethren in merey; yea, acknowledge 
your unworthiness before God at all times. And may 
the Lord bless your soul, and receive you at the last day 
into his kingdom, to sit down in peace. Now go, my 
son, and teach the word unto this people. Besober. My 
son, farewell. * 


— pe 


CHAPTER XIX. 
The commandments of Alma, to his son Corianton. 


Anp now my son, I have somewhat more to say unto 
thee than what I said unto thy brother: for behold, bave ye 
not observed the steadiness of thy brother, his faithfulness, - 
and his diligence in keeping the commandments of God. 
Behold, has he not set a good example for thee? For thou 
didst not give so much heed unto my words as did thy 
brother, among the people of the Zoramites. Now this is 
what I have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in 
thy strength, and thy wisdom. And this is notall, my son, 
Thou didst do that which was grievous unto me; for thou 
didst forsake the ministry, and did go over into the land 
of Siron, among the borders of the Lamanites, after the 
harlot Isabel; yea, she did steal away the hearts of many; 
but this was no excuse for thee, my. son. Thon shouldst 


Sek BOOK OF ALEA 


have tended to the ministry, wherewith thon Weetentrust: 
ed. Know ye not, my son, that these things are an abom~ 
ination in the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable 
above all sins, save it be the shedding of innocent blood, 
or denying the Holy Ghost? for behold, if ye deny the 
Holy Ghost when it once has had place in you, and ye 
know that ye deny it; behold, this is a sin'which is un 
donable; yea, and whosoever murdereth against the light 
and knowledge of God, it is not easy for bim to obtain for- 
iveness; yea, I say unto you, ay son, that it is not easy 
or him to obtain a forgiveness. And now my son, I would 
to God that ye had not been guilty of so great a crime, I 
would not dwell upon your erimes, to harrow up your soul, 
if it were not for your good. But behold, ye cannot hide 
your crimes from God; and except ye repent, they will 
stand as a testimony against you at the last day. Now my 
son, I would that ye should repent, and forsake your sins, 
and go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross your 
eelf in all these things; for except ye do this, ye can inne 
wiee inherit the kingdom of God, O remember, and take 
it upon you, and cross yourself in these things. And I 
command you to take it upon you to counsel your elder 
brothers in your undertakings; for behold, thou art in thy 
youth, and ye stand in need to be nourished by your broth- 
ers. ‘And give heed to their counsel; suffer not yourself 
to be led rata by any vain or foolish thing; suffer not that 
the devi] lead away your heart again, after those wick- 
ed harlots. Behold, O my son, how great iniquity ye 
brought upon the Zoramites: for when they saw your con- 
duct, they would not believe in my words. And now the 
— of the Lord doth say unto me, command thy chil- 
ren to do goed, lest they lead away the hearts of many 
people to destruction: therefore I command you, my son, 
the fear of God, that ye refrain from your iniquities; _ 
that ye turn to the Lord with all your mind, might and | 
strength; that ye lead away the hearts of no more, to do 
wickedly; but rather return unto them, and acknowledge 
your faults, and retain that wrong which ye have done; 
geek not after riches, nor the vain things of this world; | 
for behold, you cannot carry them with you. 

And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you con- 
cerning the coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto you, 
that is he that surely shall come, to take away the sins of 
tho world; yea, he cometh to declare glad tidings of sal- 
vation unto his people. And now my son, this wes the 
ministry unto which ye were called, to declare these glad 
tidings unto this people, to prepare their minds; or rather 





ee eer ee ee ee eee et Pee ee 


BOOK OF ALMA. 


that salvation might come unto them, that they may pree 
pare the minds of their children to bear the word at the 
time of his coming. And now I will ease your mind 
somewhat on this subject. Behold, you — why these 
things should be known so long beforehand. Behold, Isa 
unto you, is not a soul at this time as precious unto God;. 
as a soul will be at the time of his coming? Is it not as ne- 
cessary that the plan of redemption should be made known 
unto this people, as well gs unto their children? Is it not 
gs easy at this time, for the Lord to send his angel to de» 
elare these glad tidings unto us, as unto our children; or 
as after the time of his coming? Now my son, here is 
somewhat more I would say unto thee: for I perceive that 
thy mind is worried concerning the resurrection of the 
dead. Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrec- 
tion; or I would say in other words, that this mortal docs 
not put on immortality; this corruption does not put on 
incorruption, until after the coming of Christ. Behold, he 
bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead. But behold, 
my son, the resurrection is not yet. Now I unfold unto 
you a mystery: nevertheless, thero are many mysteries, 
which are kept, that no one knowéth them, save God him- 
self. But I shew unto Pb one thing, which I have inə 
quired diligently of God, that I might know; that is, cone 
eerning the resurrection. Behold, there is a time appoint- 
ed that all shall come forth from the dead. Now when 
this time cometh, no one knows; but God knoweth the 
time which is appointed. Now whether there shall be 
one time, or a second time, or a third time, that men shall 
come forth from the dead, it mattereth not; fer God know» 
eth all these things; and it sufficeth me to know that this 
is the case: that there is a time appointed that all shall 
tise from the dead. Now thcre must needs be a space be- 
twixt the time of death, and the time of the regurreetion. 
And now I would inquire what becometh of the souls of 
men, from this time of death, to the time apointed for the 
resurrection? Now whether there is more than one time 
appointed for men to rise, it mattereth not; for all do not 
die at once: and this mattereth not; all iz as one day, 
with God; and time only is measured unto men; therefore 
there isa time appointed unto men, that they shall rise 
from the dead: and there is a space between the time of: 
death and the resurrection. And now concerning this 
space of time. What becometh of the souls of men, is 
the thing which I have inquired diligently of the Lord to - 
know; and this is the thing of which I do know. And 
28 ; 


gae. BOOK OF ALMA. 


when the time cometh when all shali rise, then shali they 
know that God knoweth all the times which are appointed 
unto man. Now concerning the state of the soul between 
death and the resurrection. Behold, it has been made 
known unto me, by an angel, that the spirits of all men, 
as soon as they are departed from this mortal body; yea, 
the spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are 
taken home to that God who gave them life. And then 
shall it como to pass the spirits of those who are righteous, 
are received into a state of happiness, which is called par- 
adise; a state of rest; a state of peace, where-they shall 
rest from all their troubles, and from all care, and sorrow, 
&c. And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of 
the wicked, yea, who are evil; for behold, they have no 
part nor portion of the spirit of the Lord; for behold they 
choose evil works, rather than good; therefore the spirit of 
the devil did enter into them, and take possession of their 
house; and these shall be cast out into outer darkness; 
there shall be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth; 
and this because of their own iniquity; being led captive 
by the will of the devil. Now this is the state of the 
souls of the wicked; yea, in darkness, and a state of awful, 
fearful, oe for, of the fiery indignation of the wrath 
of God upon them; thus they remain in this state, as well 
as the righteous in paradise, until the time of their resur- 
rection. Now there are some that have undetstood that 
this state of happiness, and this state of misery of the soul, 
before the resurrection, was a first resurrection. Yea, Iad- 
mit it may be termed a resurrection; the raising of the spirit 
or the goul, and their consignation to happiness or misery, 
according to the words which have been spoken. ` And be- 
hold, againit hath been — that there is a first resurrec- 
tion; a resurrection of all those who have been, or who are, 
or who shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the 
dead. Now we do not suppose that this first resurrection 
which is spoken of in this manner, can be the resurrection of 
the souls, and their consignation to happiness or misery. Ye 
cannot suppose that this is what it meaneth. Behold, I 
say unto you, nay; but it meaneth the re-uniting of the 
soul with the body of those from the days of Adam, down 
to the resurrection of Christ. Now whether the souls and 
the bodies of those of whom have been spoken, shall all 
be re-united at once, the wicked as well as the righteous, 
I do not say; let it suffice, that I say that they all come 
. forth; or in other words, their resurrection cometh to pass 
„before the resurrection of those who die after the resur- 
‘rection of Christ. Now my son, I do not say that their 


BOOK OF ALMA.. wa 


tegurrectioh cometh at the resutreotion of Christ; but be- 
‘hold, I give it as my opinio, that the souls and the bodies 
‘are re-united, of the righteous, at the resurrection of 
‘Christ, and his ascension into heaven. But whether it be at 
‘his resurrection, or after, Ido not say; but this mueh I say, 
-that there is a space between death and the resurrection of 
‘the body, and astate of the soul in happiness or in misery, 
-until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall 
‘come-forth, and be re-united, both soul and body, and be 
‘brought to stand before God, and be- judged according to 
‘their works; yea, this bringeth about the restoration of 
those things‘of which have been spoken by the mouths of 
‘the prophets. The soul shall be restored to the body, and 
‘the body to the soul; yea and every limb and joint shall 
-be restored to its body; yea, even a hair of the head shall 
not be lost, but all things shall be restored to their proper 
arid perfect frame. And now my son, this is the restora- 
‘tion of which has been spoken by the mouths of the pro- 

hets. And then shall the righteous shine forth in the 

ingdom of God. But behold, an awful death cometh 
upon the wicked; for they die as to thangs pertaining to 
things of righteousness; for they are unclean, and no une 
clean thing can inherit the kingdom of God; but they are 
cast out, and consigned to partake of the fruits of their 
labors or their works, which have been evil; and they 
drink the drogs of a bitter cup. 

And now my son, I have somewhat to say concerning 
the restoration of which has been spoken; for behold, some 
have wrested the scriptures, and have gone far astray, br 

‘cause of this thing. And I perceive that thy mind has 
-been worried also, concerning this thing. But behold, I 
will explain it unto thee. I say unto thee, my son, that 
the plan of restoration is requisite with the justice of Gods 
for it is requisite that all things should be restored to their 
-proper order. Behold, it is requisite and just, according to 
ithe power and resurrection of Christ, that the soul of man 
should be restored to its body, and that every. part of the 
body-should be restored to itself. And it is requisite with 
the justice of God, that men should be judged according 
‘to their works; and if their works were good in this life, 
and the desires of their hearts were good, that they should 
also, at the last day, be restored unto that which is good; 
and if their works are evil, they shall be restored unto him 
for evil: therefore, all things shall be restored to their pro- 
per order; every thing to its natural frame; mortality raised 
to immortality; corruption to incorrupsion; raised to end- 
less happiness, to inherit the kingdom of God, or to endless 


ae BOOK OF ALMA: 


misery, to inhorit the kingdom of the devil; the ong on one 
hand, the othe? on the other ;*the one raised to happiness, 
according to his desires of happiness; or good, according 
to his desires of good; and the other to evil, according te 
his desires of evil; for as he has desired to do evil ail the 
day long, even so shall he have his reward of evil, when 
the night cometh. And so it ison the other hand. Ifhp 
hath repented of his sins, and desired rightoowaness until 
the end of his days, even eo shall he be rewarded unto 
righteousness. Those are they that are redeemed of the 
Lord: yea, these are they that are taken out, that are de 
livered from that endless night of darkness; and thus they 
stand or fali ; for behold, they are their own judges, whether 
to go good or do evil. Now the decrees of God are unal- 
terable; therefore the way is prepared, that whosoever will, 
may walk therein and be saved. And now behold, my son, 
do not np onc more offence against your God upon these 
pointa of doctrine, which ye have hitherto risked to com- 
init sin.. Do not suppose, because it has been spoken con- 
cerning restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to 
happiness. Behald I say unto you, wickedness never was 
happiness. And now, my son, all men that are in a state 
of nature, or I would say, in a carnal state, are in the gall 
of bitterness, and in the honds of iniquity; they are with- 
out God in the world, and they have gone contrary to the 
nature of God; therefore they are in a state contrary to the 
nature of happiness. A.nd now behold, is the meaning of 
the word restoration, to take a thing of a natural state, and 
piace it in an unnatural state, or to place it in a state op- 
posite to its nature? O, my son, this is not the case; but 
the meaning of the word restoration, is to bring back again 
evil for evil, or carnal for carnal, or devilish tor devilish; 
good for that which is good; righteous for that which is 
ee just for that which is just; merciful for that 
which is merciful; therefore, my son, see that ye are mer- 
ciful unto your brethren; deal justly, judge righteously, 
and do good continually; and ìf ye do all these thingy, 
then shall ye receive your reward; yea, ye shall have mer 
cy restored unto you again; ye shal! have justice restored 
unto you again; ye shall have a righteous judgment re- 
etored unto you again; and ye shall have good rewarded 
unto you again; for that which ye dosend out, shall return 
unto you again, and be restored; therefore the word reste- 
ration, more fully condemneth the sinner, and justifieth 
him not at all. 

And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more 
which doth worry your nnd, which ye cannot und 











ROOK OF ALMA. i S 


‘which is coneetning the justice of God, in the punishment 
of the sinners for ye do try to suppose that it is injustice 
that the sinner should be consigned to a state of misery. 
Now behold, my son, I will explain thia-thing unto thee: 
for behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth 
from the garden of Eden to till the ground, from whence 
they were taken; yea, he drew out the man, and he placed 
at the east end of the garden of Eden, Cherubim, and a 
flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the tree 
of life. Now we see that the man had become as God, 
knowing good and evil; and lest he should put forth his 
hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat; and live 
forever, the: Lord God placed Cherubim and the flamiag 
sword, that he should not partake of the fruit; and thus 
we see, that there was a time granted unto man, to repent, 
yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God. 
For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, 
and partook of the tree of life, he would have lived forever, 
aecoeding to the word of God, having ne space for repent- 
ance; yea, and also the word of God wonld have been void, 
and the preat plan of salvation Would have been frustrated. 
But bekeld, it was appointed unto man to die; therefore as 
they were cut off from the tree of life, they should be cut 
off from tke face of the earth; and man became lost for 
ever; yea, they became fallen man. And now we.see by 
this, that our fret parents were cut off, both temporally and 
spiritually, from the presence of the Lord: and thas we see 
they became subjects to follow after their own will, Now 
behold, it wae not expedient that man should be reclaimed 
from this temporal death, for that would destroy the great 
lan of happiness; therefore, as the soul could never die, 
and the fall had brought upen all mankind a spiritual death 
an well as a temporal; that is, they were eut off from the 
presence of the Lord; it was -expedient that maakind 
should be reclaimed from this spiritual death; therefore 
es they had become canal, sensual and devilish, by na- 
4ure, this probationary state became a state for them to 
repare » it became a preparatory state. And now remem- 
ber, my son, if it were not fer the plan of redemption, 
(laying it aside,) ae soen as they were dead, their seuls 
were miserable, being cut off from the presence of the 
Lord. And now there was no méans to reclaim men 
from this fallen state which man had brought upon 
himself, because of his own disobedience; therefore, 
according to justice, the plan of redemption could not 
be brought about, only, n conditions of repentance of 
; t, 





3w ° BOOM OF ALMA. 


‘men in this. probationary state; yea, this pr 
state; for except it were for these conditions, mer 
could not take effect except it should destroy the work 
justice. Now the work of justice could not be destroyod: 
Af so God would cease to be God. And thus we see that 
all mankind were fallen, and they were in the grasp of 
justice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned them 
forever to be cut off from his presence. And now the plar 
of mercy could not be brought about, except an atone- 
«ment should be made; therefore God himself atoneth fer 
the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to 
appease tho demands of justice, that God might be a per- 
fect, just God, and a merciful God also. Now repentance 
eould not come unto men, except there were & punish- 
ment, which also was as eternal as the life of the seul 
should be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness, whieh 
was ns eternal also as the life of the soul. Now, how 
could a man repent, except he should sin? How could 
he sin, if there was no law, how could there be a law, 
save there was a punishment? Now there was a punishe 
ment affixed, and a just Idw-given, which brought remorse 
of conscience unto man. Now if there was no law given, 
if a man murdered he should die, would he be afraid he 
should die if he should murder? And also. if there was 
no law — against sin, men would not be afraid to sin. 
And if there was no law given if men sinned, what could 
justice do, or mercy either: for they would have no claim 
upon the creature. But there is a law given, and a panigh> 
ment affixed, and repentance granted ;‘ which repentance, 
mercy claimeth: otherwise, justice claimeth the creature, 
and executeth the law, and the law inflicteth the punish» 
ment; if not so, the works of justiee-would be destroyed, 
and God would cease to be God. But God eeaseth not to 
be God, and mercy claimeth the penitent, and merey 
cometh because of the atonement; and the atonement 
‘bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead: and the 
resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the pres 
‘ence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, 
to be judged according to their works; according to thé 
law and justice; for behold, justice exereiseth all his 
demands, and also mercy claimeth all which is her owt; 
and thus, none bat the truly penitent are saved.. What, 
do ye suppose that mercy can rob justice? 1 say unto you 
nay; not one whit. If so, God would cease to be God. 
And thus God bringeth about his greet and eternal pus- 
poses, which were prepared from.the foundation ar the 
world. And thus cometh about the salvation and the 





WOOK OF khia es 


tedempiien of men, and alge their destruction and misery; 
therefore, O my son, whosoever will some, may cone ia 
partake of the watere of life freely; and whosoever will 
not come, the same is not compelled to come; but in the 
lest day, it shall be restored unto him, according to his 
deeds. If he has desired to do evil, and has not repented 
in his days, behold evil shall be done unto him, according 
to the restaration of God. And now my son, I desire that 
he should let these things trouble you no more, and onl 
let your sina trouble you, with that trouble which shall 
bring you down unto repentance. O my son, I desire ay 
ye should deny the justice of God no more. Do note 
deavor to excuse yourself in the least point, because of 
your sins, by denying the justice of God, but do you let 
the justice of God, and his mercy, and his long suffering, 
have full sway in your heart; but let it brimg you down to 
the dust in humility. And now, O my son, ye are called 
of God to preach the word unto this people. And now, 
my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and 
sobernegs, that thou mayest bring souls unto repentance, 
that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them, 
R may God grant unto you even according to my worda. 
men, . 


— 2+o— 
CHAPTER XX. 


AND now it came to pass, that the sons of Alma did go: 
forth among the people, to declare the word unto them, 
And Alma alse, himself, could not rest, and he also went 
forth. Now we shall say no mpre concerning their preach- 
ing, except that they preached the word, and the truth, 
according to the spirit of prophecy and revelation: and 
they preached after the holy order of God, by which they 
were called. 

And now I return to an account of the wars between the 
Nephites and Lomanites, in the eighteenth year of the 
reign of the jydges. For behold it came to pase that the 
Zoramites became Lamanités; therefore in the commences 
ment of the eighteenth year, the people of the Nephites 
saw that the Lamanites were coming upon them; theres 
fore they made preparations for wars yea, they gathered 
together their armies in the land of Jerghon. And it came 
to pass that the Lamanites eame with their thousands; and 
they came into the land af Antionum, which was the land 


ed DOOR: OF Ax. 


of the Zoramites; ond-a man by the name of Zeralenreds 
was their leader. And now as the Arialekites were of a 
more wicked and a murderous disposition than the Laman- 
ites were, in and of themselves, ‘therefore Zerahemneh 
appointed chief captains over the Lamanites, and they 
were all the Amelakites and the Zoramites. Now this 
he did, that he might preserve their hatred towards the 
Nephites; that he might bring them into subjection, to 
the accomplishment of his designe; for behold, his designe 
were to stir up the Lamanites to anger against the Nephites; 
thié he did that he might usurp great power over them; 
and also that he might gain power over the Nephites, by 
bringing them into bondage, &c. And now the design 
of the Nephites was to support their lands, and their 
houses, and their wives and their children, that they oa 
preserve them from the hands-of their enemies, and a 
that they might preserve their rights and their privileges 
yea, and also their liberty, that they might worship God 
according to their desires; for they knew that if they 
should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that whoso- 
ever should worship God, in spirit and in truth, the true 
and the living God, the Lamanites would destroy; yea, 
and they also Knew the extreme hatred of-the Lamanites 
towards their brethren, who were the people of Anti- 
Nephi-Lehi; who were called the people of Ammen; and 
they would not take up arms; yea, they had entered into 
a covenant, and they would’ not break it; therefore if 
they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, they 
would be destroyed. And the N ephites would not suffer 
that they should be destroyed; therefore they gave them 
lends for their inheritance. And the people of Ammon 
did give unto the Néphites a targe portion of their sub- 
stance, to support their armies; and thus the Nephites 
were compelled, alone, to withstand against the . Laman- 
ites, who were acompound of Laman and Lemuel, end 
the sons of Ishmael, and all those whe hed dissented from 
the Nephites, who were Amalekites, and Zoramites, and 
the descendants of the priests of Noah. Now those de- 
scendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the Nephites; 
and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with their 
brethren, even unto bloodshed. 

.And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites had 
gathered together in the land of Antionum, behold the 
armies of the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the 
tand of Jershon. Now the leader of the Nephites, or the 
man who had been appointed to be the chief captain over 
*ha Nephites: Now the chief captain took the commend 





peek OF ALWA. SB 


of all the armies of the Nephites: and his name was Mo- 
Soni; and Moroni took all the command, and the govern- 
ments of their wars. And he was only twenty and five 
yeara.old when he was appointed chief captain over the 
armies-of the Nephites. . 

And it came to pass that he met the Lamanites in the 
bordersof Jerskon, and his people.were armed with swords, 
and with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war. And 
when the armies of the Lamenites saw thatthe people of 
Nephi, or that Moroni bad prepared his people with breast- 

ates, and with arm-shields; yea, and also shields to de- 
fend their heads; and also they were dressed with thick 
clothing. Now the army of Zerahemnah was not prepared 
with any such thing. They had only their swords, and 
their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their stones 
and their slings; but they were naked, save it were a skin 
which was girded about their loins; yea, all were naked, 
save it were the Zoramites and the Amalekites. But they 
were not armed with breast-plates, nor shields; therefdre 
they were exceoding fraid of the armies of the Nephites, 
because of their armour, notwithstanding their number 
being so much greater than the Nephites. 

“Behold, now It came to pass, that they durst not ‘come 
against the Nephites in the borders of Jershon; therefore 
they departed out of the land of Antionum, into the wil- 
derness, and took their journey round about in the wilder- 
ness, away by the head of the river Sidon, that they might 
come into the land of Manti, and teke possession of the 
land ; for they did not suppose that the armies of Moroni 
would know whether they had gone. Bat it came to pass, 
as soon as they had departed into the wildernesss, Moroni 
rent spics.into the wilderness, to watch their camp; and 
Moroni, also, knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent 
certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire 
of the Lord whether the armies of the Nephites should go, 
to defend themselves against the Lamanites. And itcame 
to pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma, and Al- 
ma informed the messengers of Moroni that the armies of 
the Lamanites wero marching round about in the wilder- 
ness, that they might eome over into the land of Manti, 
that they might commence an attack upon the more weak 
per of the people. And those messengers went and de- 
ivered the message unto Moroni. 

Now Moroni, leaving a part of hia army in the land of 
Jershon, lest, by any means, a part of the Lamanites should 
come into that land and take possession of the city, took 
the: remainder part of his army and marched over into the 


one Book: OF ALMA: 


of the Zoramites; and:a man by the name of Zerahemudh 
was their leader. And now as the Amalekites were of a 
more wicked and a mutderous disposition than the Laman- 
ites were, in and of themselves, therefore Zerahemmueh 
appointed chief captains over the Lamanites, and they 
were all the Amelakites and the Zoramites. Now this 
he did, that he might preserve their hatred towards the 
Nephites; that he might bring them into subjection, to 
the accomplishment of his designs; for behold, his designs 
were to stir up the Lamaniteés to anger against the Nephites; 
ib he did that he might usurp great power over them; 
and also that he might gain power over the Nephites, by 
bringing them into bondage, &c. And now the design 
of the Nephites was to support their lands, and their 
houses, and their wives and their children, that they migi 
preserve them from the hands of their enemies, and a 
that they might preserve their rights and their privileges; 
yea, and also their liberty, that they might worship God 
according to their desires; for they knew that if they 
should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that whoso- 
ever should worship God, in spirit and in truth, the true 
and the living God, the Lamanites would destroy; yea, 
and they also knew the extreme hatred of-the Lamanites 
towards their brethren, who were the people of Anti- 
Nephi-Lehi; who were called the people of Ammon; and 
they would not take up arms; yea, they had eateréd into 
a covenant, and they would’ not break it;. therefore if 
they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, they 
would be destroyed. And the Nephites would not suffer 
that they should be destroyed; therefore they gave them 
lends for their inheritance. And the people of Ammon 
did give unto the Néphites a arge portion of their sab» 
stance, to support their armies; and thus the Nephites 
were compelléd, alone, to withstand against the Laman- 
ites, who were a compound of Laman and Lemuel, and 
the sons of Ishmael, and all those whe hed dissented from 
the Nephites, who were Amalekites, and Zoramites, and 
the descendants of the priests of Noah. Now those de- 
scendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the Nephites; 
and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with their 
brethren, even unto bloodshed. | 

_And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites had 
gathered together in the land of Antionam, behold the 
armies of the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the 
land of Jershon. Now the leader of the Nephites, or the 
man who had been appointed to be the chief « captain over 
tha Nephites: Now the chief captain took the co 








peek OF ALMA. S33 


ef ali the armies of the Nephites: and his name was Mo- 
Boni; and Moroni took al] the command, and the govern- 
ments of their wars. And he was only twenty and five 
yeats.old when he was appointed chief captain over the 
armies of the Nephites. . | 
Andit came tò pase that he met the Lamanites in the 
borders of Jershon, and his peopie.were armed with swords, 
‘and with cimetera, and all manner ef weapons of war. And 
when the armies of the Lamanites saw that the people of 
Nephi, or that Meroni had — bis people with breast- 
ates, and with arm-shields; yea, and also shields:to de 
ead their heads; and also they were dressed with thick 
clothing. Now the army of Zerahemnah was not prepared 
with any such thing. They had only their swords, and 
their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their stones 
and their stings; bet they were naked, save it were a skin 
which was girded about their loins; yea, all were naked, 
pave it were the Zoramites and the Amalekites. But they 
‘were not armed with breast-plates, nor shields; therefore 
they were exceoding fraid of the armies of the Nephites, 
because of their armour, notwithstanding their number 
being so much greater than the Nephites. 
. Behold, now it came to pass, that they durst not ‘come 
against the Nephites in the borders of Jershon; therefore 


they departed out of the land of Antionum, into the wil- 


derness, and taok their journey round about in the wilder- 
ness, away by the head of the river Sidon, that they might 
come into the land of Manti, and take possession of the 
land; for they did not suppose that the armies of Moroni 
would know whether they had gone. But it came to pass, 
as soon as they had departed into the wildernesss, Moroni 
rent spies into the wilderness, to watch their camp; and 
Moroni, also, knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent 
certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire 
of the Lord whether the armies of the Nephites should go, 
to defend themselves against the Lamanites. And itcame 
ta pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma, and Al- 
ma informed the messengers of Moroni that the armies of 
the Lamanites wero marching round about in the wilder- 
nese, that they might eome over into the lend of Manti, 
that they might commence an attack upon the more weak 

rt of the people. And those messengers went and de= 

ivered the message unto Moroni. ; 

-Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land of 
Jershon, lest by any means, a part of the Lamanites should 
come into that land and take possession of tho city, took 
the; zemsinder part of his army and marched over into the 


3M BOOK OF ALMA. 


land of Menti. And he caused that all the people in thet 
.quarter of the land, should gather themselves together to 
Battle, against the Lamanites, to defend their lands and 
their country, their rights and' their liberties; therefore 
they were prepared against the time of the coming of the 
Lamanites, And it came to pass, that Moroni caused that 
his army should be secreted in the valley which was near 
the bank of the river Sidon, which was on the west of the 
river Sidon, in the wilderness. And Moroni placed spies 
Yound about, that he might know when the camp of the 
Lamanites should: come. l , 

And now as Moroni knew the intention of the Laman- 
ites, that it was their intention to destroy their brethren, 
or to subject them and bring them into bondage, that they 
might establish a kingdom unto themselves, over all the 
land; and he also knowing that it was the only desire of 
the Nephites to preserve their lands, and their liberty and 
their church, therefore he thought it no sin that he should 
' ‘defend them by stratagem; therefore he found, by his 
epies, which course the Lamanites.were to take. There- 
fore he divided his army,-and brought a part over into the 
valley, and concealed them on the east, and on the south 
of the hill Riplah; end the remainder he concealed in the 
weat valley, on the west of the river Sidon, and so down 
into the borders of the land Manti., And thus havin 
placed his army according to his desire, he was prepare 
to meet them. l 

And if came to pass that the Lamanites came up on the 
north of the hill where a part of the army of Moroni was 
concealed. And as the Lamanites had passed the hill 
Riplah, and come into the valley, and began to croes the 
river Sidon, the army which was concealed on the south 
of the hill, which wae led by a man whose name was Lehi; 
and he led his army forth and encireled the Lamanites 
about, on the east in their rear. 

And it came to pass thet the Lemanites, when they saw 
the Nephites coming upon them in their rear, turned them 
about, and began to contend with the army of Lehi; and 
the work of death commenced, on both sides; but it was 
more dreadful on the part of the Lemasites; for their nak- 
edness was exposed to the heavy blows of the Nephites, 
with their swords and their eimeters, which brought death 
almost at every stroke; while on the other hand, there 
was now and then a:man fell among the Nephites, by their 
swords, and the loss of blood; they being’ shielded from 
the more vital parts of the body, or the more vital parts of 
the body being shielded from the strokes of the Lanszazitea, 





BOOK OF ALMA. 335 


by their breast-plates, and their arm-ehields, and their 
head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on the work 
of death-among the Lamanites. And it came to pass that 
the Lamanites became frightened, because of the gteat 
destruction among them, even until they, began to flee to- 
wards the river Sidon. And they were pursued by Lehi 
and his men, and they were driven by Lehi into the waters 
of Sidon; and they crossed the waters of Sidon. And Lehi 
retained his armies ypon the bank of the river Sidon, that 
they should not crops. 

And it came to pasa that Moroni and his army met the 
Lamanites in the valley, on the other sideof the river Sidon, 
and began to fall upon them, and to slay them. And the 
Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the land oft 
Manti; and they were met again by the armies of Moroni. 
Now in this case, the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; 
yea, never had the Lamanites been known to fight with 
such exceeding great strength and courage; no, not even 
from the beginning: and they were inspired by the Zoram- 
ites, and the Amalekites, who were their chief captains and 
leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who was their chief captain, 
or their chief Jeader and commander; yea, they did fight: 
like dragons; and many of the Nephites were slain by their 
hands; yea, for they did smite in two many of their head- 
plates; and they did pierce many of their breast-plates; 
and they did smite off many of their arms; and thus the. 
Lamanites did smite in their fierce anger. Nevertheless, 
the Nephites were inspired by a better cause; for they 
were not fighting for monarchy nor power; but they were 
fighting for their homes, and their liberties, their wives, 
and their children, and their all; yea, for their rites of 
worship, and their church; and they were doing that which 
they felt was the duty which they owed to their God; for 
the Lord had said unto them, and also unto their fathers, 
that inasmuch as ye are not guilty of the first offence, nei- 
ther the second, ye shail not suffer yourselves to be slain 
by the hands of your enemies. And again, the Lord has 
said that ye shall defend your families, even unto blood- 
shed; therefore for this cause were the Nephites contend- 
ing with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and their 
families, and their lands, their country, and their rights, 
and their religion. ; 

And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw 
the fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites, they were 
about to shrink and flee from them. And Moroni, perceiv- 
ing their intent, sent forth and inspired their hearts, with 
these thoughts; yea, the thoughts of their lands, their liber-- 


sae DOOK OF Aiwa. 


of the Zorentites; anda man by the name of Zerahemnuds 
was their leader. And now as the Arialekites were of a 
more wicked and a mutderous disposition than the Laman- 
ites were, in and of themselves, therefore Zeraheminah 
appointed chief captains over the Lamanites, and they 
were all the Amelakites and the Zoramites. Now this 
he did, that he might preserve their hatred towards the 
Nephites; that he might bring them into subjection, to 
the accomplishment of his designs; for behold, his designe 
were to stir up the Lamanites to anger against the Nephites; 
is he did that he might usurp great power over them; 
and also that he might gain power over the Nephites, by 
bringing them into bondage, œc. And now the design 
of the Nephites was to support their lands, and their 
houses, and their wives and their children, that they might 
preserve them from the hands of their enemies, and a 
that they might preserve their rights and their privileges; 
yea, and also their liberty, that they might — God 
according to their desires; for they knew that if they 
should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that whoso- 
ever should worship God, in spirit and in truth, the true 
and the living God, the Lamanites would destroy; yea, 
and they also knew the extreme hatred ofthe Lamanites 
towards their brethren, who were the people of Anti- 
Nephi-Lehi; who were called the people of Ammon; and 
they would not take up arms; yea, they had entered into 
a covenant, and they would’ not break it; therefore if 
they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, they 
would be destroyed. And the Nephites would not suffer 
that they should be destroyed; therefore they gave them 
lands for their inheritance. And the people of Ammon 
did give unto the Méphites a large portion of their sab- 
stance, to support their armies; and thus the Nephites 
were compelled, alone, to withstand against the . Laman- 
ites, who were a compound of Laman and Lemuel, and 
the sons of Ishmael, and all those whe hed dissented from 
the Nephites, who were Amalekites, and Zoramites, and 
the descendants of the priests of Noah. Now those de- 
scendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the Nephites; 
and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with their 
brethren, even unto bloodshed. ` 

, And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites hed 
gathered together in the land of Antionam, behold the 
armies of the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the 
land of Jershon, Now the leader of the Nephites, or the 
man who had been appointed to be the chief. captain ever 
tha Nephites: Now the chief captain took the commend 





peek OF ALMA. S33 


of all the armies of the Nephites: and his name was Mo- 
Foni; and Moroni took all the command, and the goverg- 
ments of their wars. And he was only twenty and five 
years-old when he was appointed chief captain over the 
armies of the Nephites. . 
And it came to pass that he met the Lemanites in the 
bordersof Jershon, and his people. were armed with swords, 
‘and with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war. And 
when the armies of the Lamanites saw that the people of 
Nephi, or that Moroni had Dake his people with breast- 
lates, and with arm-shields; yea, and also shields:'to de- 
Sead their heads; and also they were dressed with thick 
clothing. Now the army. of Zerahemnah was not prepared 
with any such thing. They had only their swords, and 
their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their stones 
and their slings; bet they were naked, save it were a skin 
which was girded about their loins; yea, all were naked, 
save it were the Zoramites and the Amalekites. But the} 
‘were not armed with breast-plates, nor shields; therefore 
they were exceoding fraid of the armies of the Nephites, 
because of their armour, notwithstanding their number 
being so much greater than the Nephites. 

í Beheld, now it came to pass, that they durst not ’comeé 
against the Nephitss in the borders of Jershon; therefore 
they departed out of the land of Antionum, into the wil- 
derness, and taok their journey round about in the wildere 
ness, away by the head of the river Sidon, that they might 
come into the land of Manti, and take possession of the 
land; for they did not suppose that the armies of Moroni 
would know whether they had gone. But it came to pase, 
as soon as they had departed into the wildernesss, Moroni 
rent spics into the wilderness, to watch their camp; and 
Meroni, also, knowing of the —— of Alma, sent 
certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire 
of the Lord whether the armies of the Nephites should go, 
to defend themselves against the Lamanites, And itcame 
to pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma, and Al- 
ma informed the messengers of Moroni that the armies of 
the Lamanites wero marching round abont in the wilder- 
nese, that they might eome over into the land of Manti, 
that they might commence an attack upon the more weak 

rt of the people. And those messengers went and de- 
ivered the message unto Moroni. 

- Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land of 
Jershon, lest.by any means, a part of the Lamanites should 
come into that land and take possession of the city, took 
the nemsinder part of his army and marched over into the 


3M .BOOK OF ALMA. 


land of Menti. And he caused that all the people in that 
.quarter of the land, should gather themselves together to 
batilo, against the Lamanites, to defend -their lands and 
their country, their rights and’ their libertics; therefore 
they were prepared against the time of the coming of the 
Lamanites. And it came to pass, that Moroni caused that 
his army should be secreted in the valley which was near 
the bank of the river Sidon, which was on the west of the 
river Sidon, in the wilderness. And Moroni placed spies 
round about, that he might know when the camp of the 
Lamanites should come. i 

And now as Moroni knew the intention of the Laman 
ites, that it was their intention to destroy their brethren, 
or to subject them and bring them into bondage, that they 
might establish a kingdom unto themselves, over all the 
land; and he also knowing that it was the only desire of 
the Nephites to preserve their lands, and their liberty and 
their church, therefore he thought it no sin that he should 

‘defend them by stratagem; therefore he found, by his 
epies, which course the Lamanites.were to take. ‘There- 
fore he divided his army,-and brought a part over into the 
valley, and concealed them on the east, and on the south 
of the hii Riplah; and the remainder he concealed in the 
west valley, on the west of the river Sidon, and so down 
into the borders of the land Manti. And thus havin 
placed his army according to his desire, he was pre 

to meet them. : 

And if came to pase that the Lamanites came up on the 
north of the hill whese a part of the army of Moroni was 
concealed. And as the Lamanites had passed the hill 
Riplah, and come into the valley, and began to cross the 
river Sidon, the army which was concealed on the south 
of the hill, which wus led by a man whose name was Lehi; 
and he led his army forth and encireled the Lamanites 
about, on the east in their rear. 

And it came to pass that the Lemanites, when they saw 
the Nephites eoming upon them in their rear, turned them 
about, and began to contend with the army of Lehi; and 
the work of death commenced, on both sides; but it was 
more dreadful on the part of the Lamanites; for their nak- 
edness was exposed to the heavy blows of the Nephites, 
with their swords and their eimeters, which brought death 
almost at every stroke; while on the other hand, there 
was now and then a:man fell among the Nephites, by their 
swords, and the loss of blood; they being’ shielded from 
the more vital parts of the body, or the. more vital parte of 
the body being shielded from ihe strokes of the Lamanitea, 





BOOK OF ALMA 335 


by their breast-plates, and their arm-shields, ‘and their 
head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on the work 
of death among the Lamanites. And it came to pass that 
the Lamanites became frightened, because of the gteat 
destruction — even until they, began to flee to- 
wards. the river Sidon. And they were pursued by Lehi 
and his men, and they were driven by Lehi into the waters 
of Sidon; and they crossed the waters of Sidon. And Lehi 
retained his armies ypon the bank of the river Sidon, that 
they should not cross. 

And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met the 
Lamanites in the valley, on the other sideof the river Sidon, 
and began to fall upon them, and to slay them. And the 
Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the land oft 
Manti; and they were met again by the armies of Moroni. 
Now inthis case, the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; 
yea, never had the Lamanites been known to fight with 
such exceeding great strength and courage; no, not even 
from the beginning: and they were inspired by the Zoram- 
ites, and the Amalekites, who were their chief captains and 
leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who was their chief captain, 
or their chief leddet and commander; yea, they did fight 
like dragons; and many of the Nephites were slain by their 
hands; yea, for they did smite in two many of their head- 
plates; and they did pierce many of their breast-plates; 
and they. did smite off many of their arms; and thus the. 
Lamanites did smite in their fierce anger. Nevertheless, 
the Nephites were inspired by a better cause; for they 
were not fighting for monarchy nor power; but they were» 
fighting for their homes, and their liberties, their wives, 
and their children, and their all; yea, for their rites of 
worship, and their church; and they were doing that which 
they felt was the duty which they owed to their God; for 
the Lord had said unto them, and also unto their fathers, 
that inasmuch as ye are not guilty of the first offence, nei- 
ther the second, ye shall not suffer yourselves to be slain 
by the hands of your enemies. And again, the Lord has 
said that ye shall defend your families, even unto blood- 
shed; therefore for this cause were the Nephites contend- 
ing with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and their 
families, and their lands, their country, and their rights, 
and their religion. | 

And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw 
the fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites, they were 
about to shrink and flee from them. And Moroni, perceiv- 
ing their intent, sent forth and inspired their hearts, with 
these thoughta; yea, the thoughts of their lands, their liber- - 


ee Sook oF sta: 


of the Zoremites; and. a man by the name of Zerahenndls 
was their leader, And now as the Arnalekites were of a 
more wicked and a mutderous disposition than the Laman- 
ites were, in and of themselves, therefore Zerahemneh 
appointed chief captains over the Lamanites, and they 
were all the Amelakites and the Zoramites. Now this 
he did, that he might preserve their hatred towards ‘the 
Nephites; that he might bring them into subjection, to 
the accomplishment of his designs; for behold, his designs 
were to stir up the Lamanités to anger against the Nephites; 
thid he did that he might usurp great power over them; 
and also that he might gain power over the Nephites, by 
bringing them into bondage, œc. And now the design 
of the T was to support their lands, and their 
houses, and their wives and their children, that they might 
preserve them from the hands-of their enemies, and a 
that they might preserve their rights and their privileges{ 
yea, and also their liberty, that they might worship God 
according to their desires; for they knew that if they 
should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that whoso 
ever should worship God, in spirit and in truth, the true 
and the living God, the Lamanites would destroy; yea, 
and they also Knew the extreme hatred of:the Lamanites 
towards their brethren, who were the people of Anti- 
Nephi-Lehi; who were called the people of Ammon; and 
they would not take up arms; yea, they had enmteréd into 
a covenant, and they would’ not break it; therefore if 
they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, they 
would be destroyed, And the Nephites would not suffer 
that they should be destroyed; therefore they gave them 
lends for their inheritance. And the people of Ammon 
did give unto the Néphites a arge portion of their sab» 
stance, to support their armies; and thus the Nephites 
were compelled, alone, to withstand against the Laman- 
ites, who were a compound of Laman and Lemuel, and 
the sons of Ishmael, and all those who hed dissented from 
the Nephites, who were Amalekites, and Zoramites, and 
the descendants of the priests of Noah. Now those de- 
scendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the Nephites; 
and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with theif 
brethren, even unto bloodshed. 

And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites had 
gathered together in the land of Antionam, behold the 
armies of the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the 
land of Jershon. Now the leader of the Nephites, or the 
men who had been appointed to be the chief captain ever 
the Nephites: Now the chief captain took the commend 





neck OF ALMA. $33 


of ali the armies of the Nephites: and his name was Mo- 
Koki; and Moroni took all the command, and the govern. 
mente of their wars. And he was only twenty and five 
years.old when he was appointed chief captain over the 
armies of the Nephites. . ' 

And it came to. pass that he met the Lemanites in the 
borders of Jershon, and his people.were armed with swords, 
and with cimetera, and all manner ef weapons of war. And 
when the armies of the Lamanites saw that the people of 
Nephi, or that Moroni had prepared his people with breast- 

ates, and with arm-shields; yea, and also shields-to de 
fend their heads; and also they were dressed with thick 
clothing. Now the army. of Zerahemnah was not prepared 
with any such thing. They had only their swords, and 
their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their stones 
and their slings; but they were naked, save it were a skin 
which was girded about their loins; yea, all were naked, 
save it were the Zoramites and the Amalekites. But they 
were not.armed with breast-plates, nor shields; therefore 
they were exceoding fraid of the armies of the Nephites, 
because of their armour, notwithstanding their number 
being so much greater than the Nephites. 

. Behold, now it came to pass, that they durst not ‘come 
against the Nephites in the borders of Jershon; therefore 
they departed out of the land of Antionum, into the wil- 
derness, and took their journey round about in the wilder- 
ness, away by the head of the river Sidon, that they might 
come into the land of Manti, and take possession of the 
land; for they did not suppose thet the armies of Moroni 
would know whether they had gone. But it came to pass, 
as soon as they had departed into the wildernesss, Moroni 
rent spics.into the wilderness, to watch their camp; and 
Meroni, also, knowing of the pone of Alma, sent 
certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire 
of the Lord whether the armies of the Nephites should go, 
to defend themselves against the Lamanites. And itcame 
to pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma, and Al- 
ma informed the messengers of Moroni that the armies of 
the Lamanites were marebeng round about in the wilder- 
hese, that they might eome over into the land of Manti, 
that they might commence an attack upon the more weak 
ae of the people. And those messengers went and de- 

ivered the message unto Moroni. 

. Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land of 
Jershon, lest, by any means, a partof the Lamanites should 
come into that land and take possession of the city, took 
the; xemsinder part of his army and marched over into the 





3i .BOQK OF ALMA. 


Jand of Manti. And he caused that all the people in that 
Auster of the land, should gather themselves together to 
attle, against the Lamanites, to defend .their lands and 
their country, their rights and: their liberties; therefore 
they were prepared against the time of the caming of the 
Lamanites. And it came to pass, that Moroni caused that 
his nay should be secreted in the valley which was near 
the bank of the river Sidon, which was on the west of the 
river Sidon, in the wilderness. And Moroni placed spies 
round about, that he might know when the camp of the 
Lamanites should: come. : . 

And now as Moroni knew the intention of the Laman- 
ites, that it was their intention to destroy their brethren, 
or to subject them and bring them into bondage, that they 
might establish a kingdom unto themselves, over all the 
land; and he also knowing that it was the only desire of 
the Nephites to preserve their lands, and their liberty and 
their church, therefore he thought it no sin that he should 
‘defend them by stratagem; therefore he found, by his 
epies, which course the anites.were to take. There- 
ore he divided his army,-and brought a part over into the 
valley, and concealed them on the east, and on the south 
of the hill Riplah; and the remainder he concealed in the 
west valley, on the west of the river Sidon, and so down 
into the borders of the land Manti. And thus havin 
placed his army according to his desire, he was prepare 
to meet them. 

And it came to pass that the Lamsnites came up on the 
north of the hill whese a part of the army of Moroni was 
concealed. And as the Lamanites had passed the hill 
Riplah, and come into the valley, and began to cross the 
river Sidon, the army which was concealed on the south 
of the hill, which wus led by a man whose name was Lehi; 
and he led his army forth and encireled the Lamanites 
about, on the east in their rear. i 

And it came to pass that the Lemanites, when they saw 
the Nephites coming upon them in their rear, turned them 
about, and began to eontend with the army of Lehi; and 
the work of death commenced, on both sides; but it was 
more dréadfyl on the part of the Lemasites; for their nak- 
edness was exposed to the heavy blows of the ‘Nephites, 
with their swords and their eimetera, which brought death 
almost at every stroke; while on the other hand, there 
was now and then a:man fell among the Nephites, by their 
swords, and the loss of blood; they being’ shielded from 
the more vital parts of the body, or the. more vital parts of 
the body being shielded from the strokes of the Lanmaltea, 





BOOK OF ALMA. 335 


.by their breast-plates, and their arm-shields, and their 
head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on the work 
of death-among the Lamanites. And it came to pass that 
the Lamanites became frightened, because of the gteat 
destruction among them, even until they, began to flee to- 
wards theriver Sidon. And they were pursued by Lehi 
and his men, and they were driven by Lehi into the waters 
of Sidon; and they crossed the waters of Sidon. And Lehi 
retained his armies upon the bank of the river Sidon, that 
they should not cross. 

And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met the 
Lamanites in the valley, on the other side of the river Sidon, 
and began to fall upon them, and to slay them. And the 
Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the land oft 
Manti; and they were met again by the armies of Moroni. 
Now in this case, the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; 
yea, never had the Lamanites been known to fight with 
such exceeding great strength and courage; no, not even 
from the beginning: and they were inspired by the Zoram- 
ites, and the Amalekites, who were their chief captains and 
leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who was their chief captain, 
or their chief leader and commander; yea, they did fight 
like dragons; and many of the Nephites were slain by their 
hands; yea, for they did smite in two many of their head- 
plates; and they did pierce many of their breast-plates; 
and they did smite off many of their arms; and thus the 
Lamanites did smite in their fierce anger. Nevertheless, 
the Nephites were inspired by a better cause; for they 
were not fighting for monarchy nor power; but they were 
fighting for their homes, and their liberties, their wives, 
and their children, and their all; yea, for their rites of 
worship, and their church; and they were doing that which 
they felt was the duty which they owed to their God; for 
the Lord had said unto them, and also unto their fathers, 
that inasmuch as ye are not guilty of the first offence, nei- 
ther the second, ye shall not suffer yourselves to be slain 
by the hands of your enemies. And again, the Lord has 
said that ye shall defend your families, even unto blood- 
shed; therefore for this cause were the Nephites contend- 
ing with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and their 
families, and their lands, their country, and their rights, 
and their religion. 

And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw 
the fiercenesa and the anger of the Lamanites, they were 
about to shrink and flee from them. And Moroni, perceiv- 
ing their intent, sent forth and inspired their hearts, with 
these thoughts; yea, the thoughts of their lands, their liber-- 


D 


os BOOK OF ALMA, 


tj yer, their freedem fram bondage. And it came to pass 
at they turned upon the Lamanites, and they cried with 
one voice unto the Lord their God, for their liberty, and 
their freedom from bondage. And they began to stand 
against the Lamgnites with power; and in that self-same 
bour that they cried unto the Lord for their freedom, the 
Lamanites began to flee before them; and they fled-even 
to the waters of Sidon, Now the Lamanites were more 
numerous; yea, by more than double the number of the 
- Nephites; neverthelese, they were driven insomuch that 
they were gathered together in one body, inthe valley, upon 
the bank, by the river Sidon; therefore the armies of Moroni 
encircled them about; yea, even on both sides of the river; 
for behold, on the east, were the men of Lehi; therefore 
when Zerahemnah saw the men of Lehi on the east of the 
river Sidon, and the armies of Moroni on the west of. the 
river Sidon, that they were encircled about by the Nephites, 
they were struck with terror. Now Moroni, when he sew 
their terror commanded his men that they should stop shed- 
ding their blood. i 

And it came to pass that they did stop, and wjthdrew a 

ace from them. And Moroni said unto Zerahemnah, be- 

old, Zerahemnah, that we do not desire to be men of 
blood. Ye know that ye are in our hands, yet we do not 
desire to slay you. Behold, we have not come out to bat- 
tle against you, that we might shed your blood, for power; 
neither do we desire to bring any one to the yoke of bond- 
age. But this is the very cause for which ye have come 
against us; yea, and ye are angry with us because of our 
religion. But now ye behold that the Lord is with ua; and 
ye behold that he has delivered you into our hands. And 
now I would that ye should understand that this is done 
unto us because of our religion and our faith in Christ. And 
ow ye see that ye cannot destroy this our faith. Now ye 
see that this is the true faith of God; yea, ye see that God 
will support, and keep, and preserve us, so Jong as we are 
faithful unto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; 
and never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed, 
except we should fall into tranagression, and deny our 
faith. And now, Zerahemnah, I command you, in the 
name of that all-powerful God, who has strengthened our 
arms, that we have Fone power over you by our faith, 
T our religion, and by our rites of worship, and by our 
church, and by the sacred support which we owe to our 
wivesand our ehildren, by that liberty which binds us to our 
lands and our connai yea, and also by the maintenance 
of the sacred word of God, to which we owe all our happi- 


BOOK OF- AEWA: 337 


néss; and by all thatis most dear-unto us; yep, and this is 
not all; I command you by all the desires which ye have 
for life, that ye deliver up your weapons of war unto us, 
and we will seek not your blood, but we will spare your 
lives, if ye will go your way, and come not again to war 
against us. And now if ye do not this, beheld, ye are in 
our hands, and I will command my men that they shall fall 
upon you, and infliet the wounds of death in ydur bodies, 
that ye may become extinct; and then we will see who shall 
have power over this people; yea, we will see who shall: 
be broyght into bondage. | 

And now’ it came to pass that when Zerahemnah had 
heard these sayings, he came forth and delivered up his 
sword and his cimeter, and his bow into the hands of Mo- 
roni, and said unto him, behold, here are our weapons of - 
war; we will deliver them up unto you, and we-will not suf- 
fer ourselves to take an oath unto you, which we know 
that we shall break, and also our children; but take our 
weapons of war, and suffer that we may depart into the 
wilderness; otherwise we will retain aur swords, and we - 
will perish or conquer. Behold, we are not of your faith; 
we dò not: bélieve that it is God that has delivered us into 
your hands; but we believe that it is your cunning that has 
preserved you from our swords. Behold, itis your breast- 
plates, ani r shieldsthat has preserved you. And now 
when Zerahemnah had made an end of speaking: these 
wortls, Moroni retprned the sword, and the weapons of war 
which he had received, unto Zerahemnah, saying, behold, 
we will end the conflict. Now I cannot retain the words 
which I have spoken; therefore as the Lord liveth, ye 
shall not depart, except ye depart with an oath, that ye will - 
hot return again against us to war. Now as ye are in our 
hands, we will spill your blood upon the ground, or ye 
shall submit to the conditions to which I have proposed. 
And now when Moroni had said these words, Zerahemnah 
retained his sword,’and he was angry with Moroni and he 
rushed forward that he might slay Moreni: but as he rais- 
ed his sword, behold, one of Moroni’s soldiers smote it even 
to the earth; and it broke by the hilt; and he also smote 
Zerahemngh, thet he took off his scalp, and it fell to the 
earth. And Zeralttemnah withdrew from before them, into 
the midst of his soldiers. 

And it caine to pass that the soldier who stood by, who 
smote off the scalp of Zerahemnah, took up the scalp from 
off the ground, by the hair, and laid it upon the point of 
his sword, and stretched it — unto them, saying unto 


338 BOOK ‘OF “ALMA, 


them with a loud voice, even as this scalp has-fallen to tho 
earth, which is the scalp of your chief, so shall ye fall to 
‘the earth, except ye will deliver up your weapons of war, 
and depart, with a covenant of peace. 

Now there were many, when they heard these words, 
and saw the scalp which was upon the sword, that were 
struck with fear, and. many came forth and threw down 
their weapons of war, at the feet of Moroni, and entered 
into a covenant, of peace. And a» many as entered into a 
covenant, they suffered to depart into the wilderness. 

Now it came to pass that Zerahemnaoh was exceeding 
wroth, and he did stir up the remainder of his soldiers to 
anger, to contend more powerfully against the Nephites. 
And now Moroni was angry, because of the stubborness 
of the Lamanites; therefore he commanded his people that 
they should fall upon them and slay them. Andit came to 
pass that they began to slay them: yea, and the Lamanites 
did contend with their swords and their mights, But be- 
hold, their naked skins, and their bare heads, were expos- 
` ed to the sharp swords of the Nephites; yoa, behold, they 
were pierced and smitten; yea, and did fall exceeding fast 
before the swords of the Nephites; and they,began te be 
swept down, even as the soldier of Moroni had prophesied. 
Now Zerahemnah, when he saw that they were all about 
to be destroyed, cried mightily unto Moroni, promising 
that he would covenant, and also his people, with them, 
if they would spare the remainder of their lives, that they 
never would come to war again against them. And it 
came to pass that Moroni caused that the work of death 
should cease again among the people. And he took the 
‘weapons of war from the Lamanites; and after they had 
entered into a covenant with him of peace, they were suf- 
fered to depart into the wilderness. Now the number of 
their dead were not numbered, because of the greatness 
of the number; yea, the number of their dead were ex- 
ceeding great, both on the Nephites, and on the Lamanites. 
And it came to pass that they did cast their dead into the 
waters of Sidon; and they have gone forth, and are buried 
in the depths of the sda. And the armies of the Nephites, 
or of Moroni, returned, and came to their houses, and their 
lands. And thus ended the eighteenth year of the reign 
of the judges over the people of Nephi. And thus ended 
co — Alma, which was written upon the plates of 

ephi. , = 








BOOK OF ALNA. ono 
ise 4 CHAPTER XXI. ; 


The atoount of the- people of Nephi, and their wars and dis- 
: sensions, in the days of Helaman, according to the record 
of Helaman, which he kept in his days. ; 


- Brnoxn, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi 
were exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again 
delivered them. out of the hands of their enemies; there- 
fore they gave thanks unto thè Lord their God: yea, and 
net did fast much and pray much, and they did worskip 
God with exceeding great joy. 

` And it came to pass in the nineteenth year of the reign 
of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came 
unto his‘son Helaman, and said unto him, believest thou 
the words which I spake unto thee concerning those re- 
cords whieh have been kept? And Helaman said unto him, 

ea, I believe. And Alma said again, believest thou in 
esus Christ, who shall come? And he said, yea, I be- 
lieve all the words which thou hast spoken. And Alma 
said unto him again, will ye keep my commandments? 
And he said, yea, I will keep thy commandments with all 
my heart. Then Alma said unto him, blessed art thou: 
and the Lord shall prosper thee in this land. But behold, 
I have somewhat to prophesy unto thee; but what I proph- 
esy unto thee, ye shall not make known; yea, what I. 
prophesy unto thee shall not be made known, even until 
the prophecy is fulfilled; therefore write the words which 
Ishall say. And these are the words: Behold, I perceive 
that this very people, the Nephites, according to the spirit 
of revelation which ie in me, in four hundred years from 
the time that Jesus Christ shali manifest himself unto 
them, shall dwindle in unbelief; yea, and then shall the 
see wars and pestilences, yee, famines and bloodshed, 
even until the people of Nephi shall become extinct; yea, 
and this because they shall dwindle in unhelief, and fall 
into the works of jatkices and laciviousness, and all 
manner of iniquities; yea, I say unto you, that because 
they shall sin against so great light and knowledge; yea, 
I say unto you, that from that day, even the fourth gener- 
ation shali not all pass away, befora this es iniquity 
shall come; and when that great day cometh, behold, the 
time very soon cometh that those who are now, or the 
seed of tie who are now numbered among the people of 
Nephi, shall no more be numbered among the people of 
Nephi; but whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in 
that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the 


340) BOOK OF ALHdn 


Lamanites, and shall become like unto them, all, save. it 
be a few, who shall be called the disciples of the Lord; 
and them shall the Lamanit pursue, even until they shall 
‘become extinct. And now, because of iniquity, this 
prophecy shall be fulfilled. i 
_ And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these 
things to Helaman, he blessed him; and algo hia other sons; 
and he also blessed the earth, for the righteous’ sake. And. 
he said, thus saith the Lord God: Cursed shall be the land, 
yea, this land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and 
people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they 
are fully ripe; and as I have said, so.shall it be: for this 
is the cursing and the blessing af God upon the land, for 
the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of ab 
lowance. Amd now, when Alma hed said these words, 
he blessed the church, yea, all those who should stand 
fast in the faith, from that time henceforth; and when 
Alma had’ done this, he departed out of the land of Zara- 
hemla, as if to go into the land of Melek: „And it came 
to pos that he was never-heard of more; as to his death 
or burial, we know not of. Behold, this we know, that 
he wasa righteous man; and the saying went abroad in 
the church, that he was taken Op by the spirit, or buried 
by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses. Bat behold, the 
scripture saith the Lord took Moses unto himeelf; and we 
suppose that he has also received Alma ia the spirit, unto 
himself; therefore, for this causa, we know nothing con- 
cerning his death and burial. 

And now it.came to pass in the commencement of the 
nineteenth year of the reign of the judges over. the peaple 
of Nephi, that Helaman went forth amapg the people to 
declare the word unto them; for. behold, beeause of their 
wars with the Lamanites, and the many little dissensions 
and disturbances, which bad been among the people, 
it became expedient that the word ef God should be 
declared among them; yea, and that a regulation should 
be made throughout the church; therefore Helaman and 
his brethren went forth to establish the church again ia all 
the land, yea, in every eity throughout all the land which 
was possessed by the people of Nephi. And it eame to 
pees that they did appoint prieste and teachers throughout 
all the land, over aif the churches. . 

And now it came to pess that after Helaman sod his 
brethren had —— priests and teachera over the 
churches, that there arose a dissension among them, 
they would not give heed to the words of Helaman and 
bis brethrea; but they graw proud, being lifted up in their 





BOOK OF ALMA. 341 


hearts, because of their exceeding great riches; therefore 
they grew rich in their owh eyes, and would not give heed 
to their words, to walk uprightly before God. 
' And it‘came.to pass that as many as would not hearken 
to the words of Helaman ‘and his brethren, were gathered 
together against their brethren.: And now behold, they 
were exceeding wroth, insomuch that they were deter- 
mined to slay them. Now the leader of those who were 
wroth against their brethren, was a large and strong man; 
ard his name was Amalickiah; And Amalickiah was de- 
sirous to be a king; and those people who were wroth, 
were also desirous that he should be their king: and they 
were the greater part df them the lower judges of the 
land; and they were seeking for power. : And they had 
been. led by the. flatteries of Amalickish, that if they 
would support him, and establish him to be their king, 
that he would make them rulers overthe people. Thus 
they were led away by Amalickiah, to dissensions, not- 
withstanding the préaching of Helaman and his brethren; 
‘yea, notwithstanding their exceeding great care óver the 
church, for they were high priests over the church. And 
there were many in the church who believed in the flat- 
tering words of Amalickiah; therefore they dissented 
even from the church; and thus were the affairs of the 
people of Nephi excecding precariousand dangerous, not- 
withstanding their great victory which they had had over 
the Lamanites, and their great rejoicings which they had 
had, because of their deliverance by the hands of the Lord. 
Thus we see how quick the children of men do forget the 
Lord their God; yea, how quick todo iniquity,.and to be led 
away by the evil one; ‘yea and we also gee the great wick- 
edness one very wicked man can cause to take place among 
the children of men: yea, we see that Amalickiah, be- 
cause he was a man, of cunning devices, and a man of 
many flattering words, that he led away the hearts of many 
people to do wickedly; yea, and to seek to destroy the 
church of God, and to destroy the foundation of liberty 
which God had gtanted unto them, or which blessing God 
had sent upon the face of the land, for the righteous’ sake. - 
And now it came to a n when Moroni, who was 
the chief commander. of the armies of the Nephites, had 
heard of these dissensions, he was angry with Amalickiah. 
And it came to pass that he rent hisecoat; and he took a 
piece thereof,.and wwte upon it, in memory of our'God, 
our religion, and freddom, and our peace, our wives, and’ 
our children; and h¢ ono it upon the end of a pole 


mo BOOK OF ALMA. 


thereof. And he fastened on his head-plate, gnd-hig 
breast-plate, and his shields, and girded on his armour 
about his loins; and he took the sake. which had on the 
end thereof his rent eoat, (and he called it the title of lib- 
erty,) and he bowed himself to the earth, and he prayed 
mightily unto his God for the blessings of liberty to reat 
upon his brethren so long as there should a band of chris 
tians remain to possess the land; for thus were all the true 
believers of Christ, who belonged to the church of God, 
called, by those who did not belong to the church; and 
those who did belong to the church, were faithful; yea, all 
thase who were true believers in Christ, took upon them, 
gladly, the name of Christ, or christians, as they were çal- 
ed, because of their belief in Christ, who should come; 
and therefore, at this time, Moroni prayed that the cause 
of the christians, and the freedom of the land might be 
favored. ‘ 

And it came to pass that when he had poured aut his 
soul to God, he gave all the land whieh was south of the 
land Desolation: yea, and in fine, all the land, both on the 
north and on the south, a chosen land, and the land of 
liberty, And he said, surely God shall not suffer that we, 
who are despised because we thke upon us the name of 
Christ, shall be trodden down and destroyed, until we 
bring it upon us, by our own transgressions. And when 
Moroni had said these words, he went forth among the peo- 
ple, waving the rent of his garment in the air, that all 
might see the writing which he had wrote upon the rent, 
and crying with a loud voice, saying, behold, whosoever 
will maintain this title upon the fand, let them come forth 
in the strength of the Lord, and enter into a covenant that 
they will maintain their righta, and their religion, that the 
Lord God may bless them. 

And it came to pass that when Moroni had proclaimed 
these words, behold, the people came running together, 
with their armors girded about their loins, rending their 
ponin in token, or as a covenant, that they would not 

orsake the Lord their God; or, in other words, if they 
should transgress the commandments of God, or fall into 
transgression, and be ashamed to take upon them the name 
of Christ, the Lord should rend them even as they had 
rent their garments. Now this was the covenant which 
they made; and they cast their ‘garments-at the feet of 
Morgni, saying, we covenant with cur God, that we shall 
be destroyed, even as our brethren ia the land northward, 
if we shall fall into transgression; yea, he may cast us at 

feet of our enemies, even as we have cast our garments 








BOOK OF ALMA Re 


at thy feet, to be trodden under foot, if wo ahall fall into 
transgression. Meroni said unto them, behold, we are 
-Yemnant of the seed of Jacob; yea, we are a remnant q 
the seed of Joseph, whose coat .was rent by his brethren, 
into many pieces; yea, and now behold, let us remember 
to keep the commandments of God, or our garments shall 
be rent by our brethren, and we be cast into prison, or be 
sold, or be slain: yea, let us preserve our liberty, as a xem- 
hant of Joseph; yea, let us remember the words of Jacob, 
‘before his death: for behold, he saw that a part of the 
remnant of the coat of Joseph was preserved, and had:not 
decayed. And he said, even as this remnant of garment 
of my sons hath been preserved, so shall a remnant of the 
seed of my sons be preserved by the hand of God, and be 
taken unto himself, while the remainder of the seed of 
seph shall perish, even as the remnant of his garment. 
Now behold, this giveth my soul sorrow; nevertheless, my, 
goul hath joy.in my son, because that part of his se 
which shall be taken unto God. Now behold, this was 
the langnage of Jacob. And now who knoweth but what 
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, which shall perish ag 
his garment, are those who have dissented from us; yee 
and even shall it be us, if we do nat stand fast in the faith 
of Christ. ' Er D 
‘And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said 
these words, he went forth, and also sent forth in all the 
parts of the land where there were dissensions, and gath- 
thered together all the people who were desirous to main» 
tain their liberty, to stand against Amalickiah, and those 
who had dissented, who were called Amalickiahites, . 
` And it came to pass that when Amalickiah saw that the 
people af’ Moroni were more numerous than the Amalic- 
siahites; and he also saw that his people were doubtful 
concerning the justice of the cause in which they had un- 
dertaken; therefore, fearing that he should not gain the 
point, he took those of his people who would, and departed 
into the land of Nephi. 

Now Moroni thought it was not expedient that the La~ 
manites should have any more strength; therefore he 
thought to cut off the people of Amalickiah, or to take 
them and bring them back, and pu: Amalickiah to death; 
yea, forhe knew that they would stir up the Lamanites to 
anger against them, and causg them to come to battle 
against them; and this he knew that Amalickiah would 
do, that he might obtain his purposes.: therefore Moroni, 
thought it was expedient that he should take his armies, 
who had gathered themselves together, and armed them- 


$44 BOOK OF ALMA. 


selves, and entered into a covenant to keep the peace: 
And it came to pass that he took his army, and matched 
out into the wilderness, to cut off the course of Amalic- 
kiah in the wilderness. 

And it came to pass that he did according to his desirés, 
and marched forth into the wilderness, and headed the 
armies of Amalickiah. And it came to pass that Amalic- 
kiah fled with a small number of his men, and the remain- 
der were delivered up into the hands of Moroni, and were 
taken back into the land of Zarahemla. Now Moroni 
being a man who was appointed by the chief judges and 
the voice of the people, therefore he had power according 
to his will, with the armies of the Nephites, to establish 
and to exercise authority over them. | 

And it came to pass that whomsoever of the Amalickia- 
hites that wduld not enter into a covenant to support the 
cause of freedom, that they might maintain a free govern- 
ment, he caused to be put to death and there was but 
few who denied the covenant of freedom. 

And it came to pass also, that he caused the title of 
_ liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all 
the land, which was possessed by the Nephites; and thus 
Moroni planted the standard of liberty among the Nephites. 
And they. began to have’ peace again in the land; and thus 
they did maintain peace in the.land, until nearly the end 
of the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges. And 
Helaman and the high priests did also maintain order in 
the church; yea, even for the space of four years, did they 
have much peace and rejoicing in the church. 

And it came to poa that there were many who died, 
firmly believing that their souls were redeemed by the 
Lord Jesus Christ; thus they went out of the world rejoic- 
ing. And there were some who died with fevers, which 
at some seasons of the year was very frequent in the land; 
but not so much so with fevers, because of the excellent 
qualities of the many plants and roots which God had pre- 
pared, to remove the cause of diseases to which men were 
subject by the nature of the climate, But there were 
many who died with old age; and those who died in the 
faith of Christ, are happy in him, as we must needs su 
pose. Now we will return in our record, to Amalickiah, 
and those who had fled with him into the wilderness: for 
behold, he had taken those who went with him, and 
went up in the land of Nephi, among the Lamanites, and 
did stir up the Lamanites to anger, against the people of 
Nephi, insomuch that the king of the Lamanites, sent @ 
proclamation throughout:all his land, among all his people, 


- 


BOOK OF AIM ha M5 


hat they-should gather themselves together again, to go 
to battle against the Nephites. Brie z 

And it came to pass that when the proclamation had 
gone forth among them, they were exceeding fraid; yeay 
they feared to displease the king, and they algo feared ta 

o to battle against the Nephites, lest they should lose 

eir lives. ` And it came {to pass that they would not, or 
the more part of them, would not obey the commandments 
of the king. a 

And now it came to pass thet the king was wroth, be- 
cause of their disobedience; therefore he gave Amalic- 
kiah: the command of that part of his army which was 
obedient unto his eA and commanded him that 
he should go forth and compel them to arms. Now 
hold, this was the desire of Amalickiah: for he being a 
very subtle man to do evil, therefore he laid the plan in 
hie heart to dethrone the king of the Lamanites, And 
now he had got the sonuiiend of those parts of the Laman- 
ites who were in favor of the king; and he sought to gain - 
favor of those who were not obedient; therefore he went 
forward to the place which was called Onidah, for thither 
had all the Lamanites fled; for they discovered the army 
coming, and supposing that they were coming to destroy 
them, therefore they: fled to Onidah, to the place of arms. 
And they had appointed a man to be a king and a leader 
aver them, being fixed in their mìnds with a determined 
resolution that they would not be subjected to go against 
the Nephites. : 

And it came to pass that they had gathered themselves to- 
gether upon the top of the mount which was called Antipas, 
in preparation to battle. Now it was not Amalickish’s 
intention to give them battle, according to the command- 
ments of the king; but behold, it was hia intention to gain 
favor with the armies of the Lamanites, that he might 
place himeelf at their hoad, and dethrone the king, and 
take —— of the kingdom. And behold, it came to 
paas that he caused his army to pitch their tents in the 
valley. which was near the mount Antipas. And it came 
to pass that when it was night, he sent a secret embassy 
into the mount Antipas, desiring that the leader of those 
who were upon the mount, whoge name was Lehonti, that 
he should come down to the foot.of the mount, for he 
desired to speak with him. ` — 

‘And .it came to pass that vhen Lehonti received the 
message, ha durst not go down to the foot of the mount. 
And it came to that Amalickhish sent again the 
aetomd time, desiring him to come down, And it came to 


346 BOOK OF ALMA. 


pass that Lehanti would not: and he sént again the third 
time. And it came to pass that when Amalickiah found 
that he could nat get Lehonti to come down off from the 
mount, he went up into the mount, nearly to Lehonti’s 
camp; and he sent again the fourth time, his message unto 
Lehonti, desiring that he would come down, and that he 
would bring his guards with him. 

And it came to pass that when Lehonti had -come down 
with his guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah desired 
him to come down with hie army in the night time, and 
surround those men in their camps, over whom the king 
had gave him command, and that he would deliver them 
up into Lehonti’s hands, if he woutd make him, (Amalic- 
kiah,) a second leader over the whole army. 

And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with his 
men, and surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so that be- 
fore they awoke at the dawg of the day, they were sur- 
rounded by the armies of —8 And it came to pass 
that when they saw they were surrounded, they plead with 
Amalickiah that he would suffer them to fall in with'their 
brethren, that they might not be destroyed. Now this 
was the very thing which Amalickiah desired. 

And it came to pass that he delivered his ment, contrary 
to the commands of the king. Now this was the thing 
that Amalickiah desired, that he might accomplish hie 
designs in dethroning the king. Now it was the custom 
among’ the Lamanites, if their chief leader was killed, to 
appoint the second leader to be their chief leader. 

And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one of 
his servants should administer poison, by degtees to Le~ 
honti, that he died. Now when Lehonti was dead; the 
Lamanites appointed Amalickiah to be their leader and 
their chief commander. And it came to pass that Ama- 
_ Kickiah marched with his armies (for he hac gained his’ 
desires) to the land of Naphi, to the city of Nephi, which 
` was the chief city. And the-king came out to meet him, 
with his guards: for he supposed that Amalickiah had ful- 
filled his commands, and that Amalickiah had gathered 
together so great an army to go against the Nephites to 
battle. But behold, a» the king came out to meet him, 
Amalickiah caused that his servants should go forth to 
méet the king. And they went and bowed themselves 
before the king, ag if to reverence him, because of his 
painea And it came to pass that the king put forth 
his hand to raige them, as was the custom with the Laman- 
ites, as a token of peace, whieh custom: they had taken 
from the Nephites. : And it came to pass that when he 











BOOK OF ALMA, . $42 


had- raisęd the first from the ground, behold he stabbed 
the king to the heart; and he tell to the earth. Now the 
servants of the king fled; and the servants of Amalickiah. 
raised a cry, saying, behold, the servants of the king have 
stabbed him to the heart, and he has fell, and they have 
fled; behold, come and aee. ier ke 

. And it game to pass that Amalickiah commanded that 
his armies should march forth, and see what had happened: 
to the king; and when they had come to the spot, and found 
the king lying in his gore, Amalickiah pretended to be 
wroth, and. said whomsoever loved the king, let him go 
forth and pursue his servants, that they may be slain. 

And it came to pass that when all they who loved the’ 
king, when they heard these words, came forth and pur- 
sued after the servants of the king. Now when the ser- 
vants of the king saw an army pursuing after them, they: 
were frighted again, and fled into the wilderness, and 
came over in the land of Zarahemla, and joined the people 
of Ammon; and the army which pursued after them, re-. 
turned, having pursued after them in vain: and thus Am- 
alickiah,. by his fraud, gained the hearts of the people. 

And it came to pass on the morrow, he entered the city of 
Nephi, with his armies, and took possession of the city. 
And now it came to pass that-the queen, when she had 
heard that the king wasslain: for Amalickiah had sent an 
embagsy to the queen, informing her that the king had been 
slain by his servants; that he had pursued.them with his 
army, but it was in vain, and they had made their escape, 
therefore when the queen had received this message, she 
sent unto Amalickiah, desiring him that he would spare 
the people of the city; and she also desired him that he 
should come in unto her; and she also desired him that ke 
should bring witnesses with him, to testify concerning the 
death of the king. . | 

And it came te pass that Amalickiah took the same ser- 
vant that slew the king, and all they who were with him, 
and went in unto the queen, unto the place where she sat; 
and they all testified unto her.that the king was slain by 
his own servants; and they said also, they have fled; does 
not this testify against them? And thus they satisfied the 
queen concerning the death of the king. > 

And it came to ge that Amalickiah sought the favor of the 
queen, and took her unto him to, wife; a thus by his fraud, 
and by the assistance of his cunning servants, he obtained 
the kingdom; yea, he was acknowledged king throughout 
all the land, among all the people of the Lamanites, who 
were composed of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and: 


Sue DOOR OF ALBA 


the Ishmaelites, and all the dissenters of the Nephites, from 
the reign of Nephi down to the present time. Now these 
dissenters, having thé same instruction and the same ia- 
formation of the Nephites; yea, haying been instructed in 
the same knowledge of the Lord; nevertheless, it is strange 
to relate, not long after their dissensions, they became more 
hardened and impenitent, and more wild, wicked and fo- 
rovious, than the Lamanites; drinking in with the tradi- 
tions of the Lamanites, giving way to indolence, and all 
manner of lasciviousness; yea, entirely forgetting the Lord 
their Ged. 

And now it came to pass that as soon ag Amalackiah 
had obtained the kingdom, he began to inspire the hearts 
of the Lamanites against the people of Nephi; yea, he did 
appoint men to speak unto the Lamanites from their tow- 
ers, against the, Nephites; and thus he did inspire their 
hearts against the Nephites, insomuch, that in the latter 
end of the nineteenth. year of the reign of the judges, he 
havi A akan dering hig designe thus far; yea, having been 
made king over the Lamanites, he sought also to reign over 
all the land; yea, and all the people who were in the land, 
the Nephites as welas the Lamanites, therefore he had 
accomplished his design, for he had hardened the hears 
of the Lamanites, and blinded their minds, and stirred them 
up to anger, insomuch that he had gathered together a nu- 
merous host, to go to battle against the Nephites. For he 
was determined, because of the greatness of the number 
of his people, to averpower the Nephites, and to bring them 
into bondage; and thus he did appoint chief captains of 
the Zoramites, they being thé most. acquainted with the 
strength of the eae and their places of resort, and the 
weakest parts of their cities; therefore he appointed them 
to be chief captains over his armies, - 

And it came to pass that they took their cainp, and moved 
forth towards the land of Zarahemla, in the. wilderness. 
Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been 
obtaining power, by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other 
hand, had been preparing the minds of ‘the people to be 
faithful unto the Lord their God; yea, he had been strength- 
ening the armies of the Nephites, and erecting small forte, 
or places of resort; throwing up banks of earth round about 
to enclose bis armies, and also building walls of stone to 
encircle them about, round about their cities, and the bor- 
ders of their lands; yea, all round about the land; and ia 
their weakest fortifications, he did place the greater num- 
ber of men; and thus he did fortify and strengthen the land 
Which was possessed by the Nephites, And thus he was 








‘boos oF Any. ‘30 


preparing to support their liberty, their lends, their wives, 
ier thee hilda and their peace, and that they might 
live unto the Lord their God, and that they might maintain 
that which was called by their enemies the cause of chris- 
"tians. And Moroni was a strong and a mighty man; ke 
was a man of a perfect understanding; yea, a man that did 
not delight in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in tlie 
liberty and the freedom of his country, and his brethren 
from bondage and slavery; yea, a man whose heart did 
swell with thanksgiviny to his God, for the many privileges 
and blessings which he bestowed upon his people; a men 
who did labor exceedingly for the welfare and safety of 
his people; yea, and he was a man who was firm in the 
faith of Christ, and he-had sworn with an oath, to defend 
hia people, his rights, and his country, and his religion, 
even to the loss of his blood. Now the Nephites were 
taught to defend themselves against their enemies, even to 
the shedding of blood, if it were necessary; yea, and they 
were also taught never to give an offence; yea, and never 
to raise the sword, except it were against an enemy, except 
it were to preserve their lives; and this was their fatth, that 
by so doifig, God would prosper them in the land; or in oth- 
er words, if they were faithful in keeping the command- 
ments of God, that he would prosper them in the land; 
yea, warn them to flee, or to prepare for war, etcording to 
their danger; and also that God would make it known unto 
them, whither they ‘should go to defend themselves against 
their enemies; and by so doing, the Lord would deliver 
them, and this was the faith of Moroni; and his heart did 
glory init; not in the shedding of blood, but in doing good, 
in preserving his people; yea, in keeping the command- 
ments of God; yea, and — iniquity. Yea, verily, 
verily I say unto you, if all men had been, and were, and 
‘ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold, the very powers 
af hell would have been shaken forever; yea, the devil 
would never have power over the hearts of the children of 
men. Behold, he wasa man like unto Ammon, the son 
of Mosiah, yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah; yea, 
and also Alma and his sons, for they were all men of God. 
Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less ser- 
viceable unto the roe than was Moroni; for they did 
preach the word of God, and they did baptize unto repent- 
ance, all men whosoever would hearken unto their words. 
And thus they went forth, and the people did humble them- 
selves because of their words, insomach that they were 
highly favored of the Lord; an thus they were free from 


A 


30 „BOOR OF ALMA. 


avetearid contentions among thameelves; yea, eyep for the 
apace of four years, But as I have said in tke latter end of 
the nineteenth; yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst 
. themselves, they were compelled reluctantly to contend 
with their brethren, the Lamanites; yea, and in dine, their 
wars never did cease for the space of many years with the 
Lamanites, notwithstanding their much reluctance. Now 
‘they were, earry to take up arms against the Lamanites, be- 
cause they did not delight in the shedding of blood; yea, 
„and thie was not all; they were sorry to be the means of 
‘mending so many of their brethren out of this world intoan 
eternal world unprepared to meet their God; nevertheless, 
they could notauffer to lay, down their lives, that their wives 
' 7 their children should be massacred by the barbarous 
eruolty of those who were once their brethren, yea, and 
had dissented from their church, and had, left them, and 
‘had gone to destroy them, by joining the Lamanites; yes, 
they could not bear that their brethren should yejoice oyer 
.the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who 
should keep the commandments of God, for the promise of 
the Lord was, if they: should keep his commandments, they 
-should prosper in the land. , o i 
And now it came to pas, in the eleyenth month of, the 
. nineteenth year, on the tenth day of the month, the armies 
of the Lamanites were seen a —— the land 
.of Ammonihah. And behold, the city.had been re-built, 
.and Meroni had. stationed an army by the borders of the 
city, and they had chet up dirt round about, to shield,them 
from the arrows and thé stones of the Lamanites:. for be- 
bold, they. faugkt with stones, and with arrows. Behold, 
-I said that the city of Ammonihah had been re-built. I 
,Bay unto you, yea, that it was in part rebuilt, and because 
. the Lamanites had destroyed it once because of the iniquity 
of the people, they supposed. that it would again become 
an easy prey for them. But behold, how great was their 
‘disappointment; for behold, the Nephites had dug up a 
‘tidge of earth round about them, which was so high that 
the Lamanites could not caat their stones and arrows at 
them, that they might take effect, neither could they come 
them, save it was by their place of entrance. Now 
sat this time, the chief captains of the Lamanites were as- 
-tonished — because of the wisdom of the Ne- 
phites in preparing their places of security. Now the lead- 
-era-of the Lamanites had supposed, because of the great- 
ness of their numbers; yea, they supposed that thoy should 
be. apy te come upon them as they had hitherto done; 
yoa, and they had also prepared themsclves with shields, 


WOOK*0F ALMA wor- 


and with breustplatos, and they had sled prepared them- 
selves with garments of skins; yea, very thick .garments, 

te cover their nakedness. And being thus prepared, they 

8 ‘that ‘they should easily overpower and subject 
their brethren to the yoke of bo ages or slay and massacre: 
them gccording to their pleasure. But behold, to their ute 
terniost astonishment, they were prepered for them, in a 

manner which never had been known among the children - 
of Lehi. Now they were prepared for the Lamanites, to 
battle, after the manner of the instructions of Moroni. And 

it came to pass that the Lamanites, or the Amalickiahites, 

Were exceedingly astonished at their manner of preparation 

for war. Now ff king Amalickiah had come down out of 

the land of Nephi, at the head of his army, perhaps he 

would have caused the Lamanites to have attacked the No- 

phites at the city of Ammonihah; for behold, he did: care 

not for the blood of his people. But behold, Amalickiah 

did not come down himself, to battle. And ‘behold, his 

chief captains durst not attack the Nephites at the city of 

Ammonihah, for Moroni had altered the management of 

affairs among.the Nephites, insomuch that the Lamanites 
were. disappointed in their places of retreat, and they could 
not come upon them; therefore they retreated into the wil- 
derness, and took their cap, and marched towards the 
land of Noah, eapposing: that to be the next best place for 

them to come against the Nephites; for they knew not that 

Moroni had fortified or had built forts of secutity for every 
' city.in aH the land round about; therefore they marched 
forward to the land of Neah, witha firm determination; 
yea, their chief captains came forward, and took an oath 

that they would destroy the people of that city. But be- 

hold, to their astonishment, the city of Noah, which had 

hitherto been a week place, had' now, by the means of Mo- 

roni, become streng; yea, even to exceed the strength of 
the city Ammonihah. And now bdeholé, this was wis- 

dom in Moroni; for he had supposed that they would be: 
frightened at the city Ammonihah; and as the pe of : 
Noah had hitherto been the weakest part of the land, there~ 

fore they would march thither to battle; and thus it was, 

according to his desires. And behold, Moroni had appoint- 

ed Lehi to be chief captain over the men of that city; and 
it was- that same Lehi who fought with the Lamanites in 

the valley, on the east of the river Sidon. 

And now behold, it came to pass, that when the Leman: 
ites had found that Lehi commanded the city, they were 
again disappointed, for they feared Lehi exceedingly; nev- 
ertheless, their chief captaine-pad sworn with an‘oath, to 


362° ROOK: OF ALMA, 


attack the dty;. therefore they brought up theit amiin 

Now behold, the Lamanites could not get into their forts 

of security, by any other way save by the entrance, be 

cause of the highness of the bank which had been thrown 
up, und the depth of the ditch which had been dug round 
about, save it were by the entrance. And thus wer the 
Nephites prepared to destroy all such as should attempt to 
cilmb up to enter the fort by aay other way, by casting 
over stonesand artowsatthem. Thus they were prepar- 
ed; yea, a body of their most strong men, with their 
swords and their slings, to amite down all who shauld at- 
tempt to come into their place of security, by the place of 
entrance; and thus weré they prepared to defend them- 
selves against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that 
the captains of the Lamanites brought up their armies be- 
fore the place of entrance, and began to contend with the 
Nephites; to get into their place of security; but behold, 
they wére driven back from time to time, insomuch that 
they were alain, with an immense slaughter. Now when 
they found that they could not obtain power over the Ne- 
phites by the pass, they began to dig down their banks of 
earth, that they might obtain a pass to their armies, that 
they might have an equal chance to fight; but behold, ia 
these attempts, they were swept off by the stones and the 
arrows which were thrown at thems and instead of. filling 
up their ditches by pulling down the banks of the earth, 
they were filled up ina measure, with their dead end 
wounded bodies. Thus the Nephites had all power over 
their enemies; and thus the Lamanites did attempt to de- 
stroy the Nephites, until their chief captains were all 
slain; yea, and more than a thousand of the Lamanites 
were slain; while on the other hand, there was not a sin- 
gle soul of the Nephites which was slain. There. were 
about fifty who were wounded, who had been exposed to 

the arrows of the Lamanites through the pass, but they 

were shielded by their shields, and their breast-plates, and 

their head-plates, insomuch that their wounds were upon 
their legs: many of which were very severe. 

And it came to pass, that when the Lamanites saw that 
their chief captains were all slain, they fled into the wil- 
derness. And it came to pass that they returned to the 
lend of Nephi, to inform their king, Amalickiah, who was 
a Nephite by birth, concerning their great loge. And it 
came to pass that he was exceeding angry with his people, 
because he had not obtained his desire over the Nephites; 
he hed not subjected them to the yoke of bondage; yes, 
he was exceeding wroth, and he did curse God, and also 





BOOK OF ALMA. - 383 : 


Moroni, and swearing with an oath that he would drink ; 
his blond; and this because Moroni had kept the eom- 
mandments of God in preparing for the safety of his peo- 
ple. And it came to pass, that on the other: hand, the ' 

eopie of Nephi did thank the Lord their God, beeause of 
Fis matchless power in delivering them from the hands of: 
their enemies, And thus énded the nineteenth year of 
of the reign of the jndges over the people of Nephi; yea, 
ahd there was continual peace among them, and exceed- 
ing great prosperity in the chureh, beeause of their heed 
and diligence which they gave unto the word of God, 
which was declared anto them by Helaman, and Shiblon, 
ahd Corianton, and Ammon, and his brethren, &c.: yea, 
and by all those who had been ordained by the holy order 
of God, being baptized unto repentance, and sent forth to 
preach among the people, &c. 


— CO 


CHAPTER XXII. 


AND now it came to pass that Moroni did not stop mak- 
ing preparations for war, or to defend his people against 
the Lamanites; for he caused that his armies should com- 
mence in the commencement of the twentieth year of the 
reign of the judges, that they should commence in di 
ing Up heaps vf earth round about all the cities, through- 
eut all the land which wes possessed by the Nephites; and 
upon the top of these ridges of earth, he caused that there 
should be timbers; yea, works of timbers built up to tho - 
heighth of a man, round about the cities. And he caused 
that upon those worke of timbers, there should be a frame 
of pickets built upon the timbers, round about; and they 
were strong and htgh; and he caused towers to be erected 
that overlooked those works of pickets; and he caused 
places of security to be built upon those towers, that the 
stones and the arrows of the Lamanites could not hurt 
them. And they were prepared, that they could cast 
stones from the top thereof, according to their pleasure 
and their strength, and slay him who should attempt to 
approach near the walls of the city. Thus Morom did 
prepare strong holds against the coming of their enemies, 
round about every city in all the land, RA 
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his armies 
stiould go forth into the — wilderness; yea, and they 


384 BOOK OF Aldi. 


went forth, and drove all the Lamanites who wers in the 
east wilderness into their own lands, which were south of 
the land of Zarahemla; and the land of Nephi did run in 
a straight course from the east sea to the west. And it 
came to pass that when Moroni had driven all the Laman 
ites out of the east wilderness, which was north of the 
lands of their own possessions, he caused that the inhabi- 
tants whe were in the land of Zarahemla, and in the land 
round about, should go forth into the east wilderness, even 
to the borders, by he sea shore, and sp the land. 
And he also placed armies on the south, in the borders of 
their essions, and caused them to erect fortifications, 
that they might secure their armies and their people from 
the hands of their enemies. And thus he cut off all the 
strong holds of the Lamanites, in the east wilderness: yea, 
and also on the west, fortifying the line between the No 
phites and the Lamanites, between the land of Zerahemls 
and the land of N phi; from the west sea, running by the 
head of the river Sidon; the Nephites possessing all the 
land northward; yea, even all the land which was north- 
ward of the land Bountiful, according to their pleasure. 
Thus Moroni, with his armies, which did increase daily, 
because of the’ assurance of protection which his works 
did bring forth unto them; therefore they did seek to cut 
off the strength and the power of tho Lamanites, from of 
the lands of their possessions, that they should have no 
power upon the lands of their possession. 

. And it came to pass that the Nephites began the foun- 
dation of a city; and they called the name of the city 
Moroni; end it was by the east sea; and it was ia the 
south by the line of the possessions of the Lamanites. 
And they also began a foundation for a city between the 
city of Moroni and the city of Aaron, joining the borders 
of Aaron and Moroni; and they called the name of the 
city, or the land, Nephihah. And they also began, in that 
same year, to build many cities on the north; one ina 
particular manner which they called Lehi, which was in 
the north, by the borders of the, seashore. And: thus end- 
ed the twentieth year. And in these ppl aes circum- 
stances were the people of Nephi, in the commencement 
of the twenty and first year of the reign of the judges over 
the people of Nephi. And they did prosper exceedingly, 
and they became exceeding rich; yes, and they did mul- 
tiply, and were strong in the land. And-thus we see how 
merciful and just are all the dealings of the Lord, to the 
fulfilling of all his words unto the children of men; yea, 
we can behold that his words are verified, even et this timè, 





BOOK OF ALMA. 355 


which he spake unto Leki, saying, blessed art thou and thy 
children; and they shall be biessed: inasmuch as they 
shall keep my commundments, they shall prone in the 
jand. But remember, inasmuch as they will not keep my 
commandments, they shall be cut off from the presence of 
the Lord. And we ace that these promises have been ver- 
ified to the people of Nephi; for it has been their quarrel- 
linge and ir contentions, yea, their murderings, and 
their plunderings, their idolatry, their- whoredoma, and 
their abominations, which were among themselves, which 
brought upon them their wars and their desiructions. 
And those who were faithful in keeping the command- 
ments of the Lord, were delivered at all times, whilst 
thousands of their wicked brethren have been consigned 
to bondage, or to perish by the sword, or to dwindle in un- 
belief, and mingle with the Lamanites. But behold there 
never was a happier time among the people of Nephi, since 
the deys of Nephi, than in the daysof Moroni; yea, even 
at this time, in the twenty and first year of the reign of 
the judges. And it came to pass that the twenty and sec- 
ond year of the reign of the judges, also ended in peace; 
yea, and algo the twenty and third year. f 

And it came to pass that in the commencement of the 
twenty and fourth year of the reign of the judges, there 
would also have been peace among the people of Nephi, 
had it not been for a contention which took place among 
them concerning the land of Lehi, and the land of Mori- 
amton, which joined upon the borders of Lehi; both of 
which were on the borders by the seashore, For behold, 
the people who possessed the land of Morianton did claim a 
part of the land of Lehi; therefore there began to be a warm 
¢untention: between them, insomuch that the people of 
Morianten took arms against their brethren, and they were 
determined by the sword te slay them. But behold, the 
people who possessed the land of Lehi, fled to the camp 
of Moroni, and appealed unto him for assistance; for be- 
hold, they were not in the wrong. 

And it came to pass that when the people of Morianton, 
who were led by a man whose name was Morianton, found 
that the people of Lehi had fled to the camp of Moroni, 
they were exceeding fearful lest the army of Moroni should 
come upon them, and destroy them; therefore, Morianton 
put it into their hearts that they should fiee to the land 
which was northward, which was covered with large bo- 
dies of water, and take possession of the land which was 
northwerd. And behold, they would have carried this 
plan into effect, (which would have been a cause to have 


— 


356: BOOK OF ALEA, 


been Iamented,) but behold, Morianton, being a-mat. of 
much passion, therefore ha wae angry with one of his majd» 
servants, and he fell upon her, and beat her much. And. 
it came to pass that shé fled, and came over to the camp af . 


' Moroni, and told Moroni all things concerning the matters. 


and also concerning their intentions to fleo into the land 
northward. Now behold, the people who were in the 
land Bountiful, or rather Moroni, — that they would 
hearken to the words of Morianton, and unite with his 
people, and thus he would obtain possession of those parts 
of the land, which would lay a foundation for serious con- 
sequences among the people of Nephi; yea, which conse- 
wences would lead to the overthrow of their liberty; there- 
ore Moroni sent an army, with their camp, to head the 
people of Morianton, to stop their flight.iato the land north- 
ward. And it came to pass that they.did not head them, 
until they had come to the borders of the land Desolation; 
and there they did head them, by the narrow pass which 
led by the sea into the land northward; yea, by the sea, 
on the weat, and on the east. 
And it came to pass that the army which was sent by 


Moroni, which wae led by a man whose name was Tean-. 


cum, did meet the people of Merianton; and so. stubborn 
were the people of Morianton, (being inspired by his wick- 
edness and hia flattering words,) that a battle commenced 
between them, in the which Teanoum did slay Morianton,. 
and defeat his army, and took them prisoners, and return- 
ed to the camp of Moroni. And thus ended the twenty 
and forth year of the reign of the judges over the people 
of Nephi. And thus was the peopte of Morianton brought 
back. And upon their covenanting to keep the peace, 
they were restored to the tand of Morianton, and a union 
took place between them and the people of Lehi; and they 
were also restored to their lands. 

And it came to pass that in the same year that the peo- 
ple of Nephi had peace restored unto them, that Nephihah, 
the second chief judge, died, having filled the judgment 
geat with perfect uprightness before God; nevertheless, he 
had refused Alma to take’ posseasion:of those records and 
those things which were esteemed by Alma and. hie fath- 
ers to be most sacred; therefore Alma had conferred them 
upon his son Helaman. i 

Behold, it came to pass that the son of Nephihah wes 
appointed to fill the judgment seat, in the stead of his fath- 
er; yea, he was appointed chief judge, and governor over 
the people, with an oath, and sacred ordinance to jadge 
righteously, and to keep the peace, and the freedom of the 


BOOK OF ALMA. 287 


people, and to grant unto them their sacred privil to 
worship the Lord their God; yea, to support end catalan 
the cause of God all his days, and to bring the wicked to jus- 
tice, according to theircrime. Now behold, his name was 
FRahoran. And Pahoran did fill the seat of his father, and 
did commence his reign in the end of the twenty and fourth, 
year, over the people of Nephi. 


—t>¢ Ga 


. CHAPTER XXIII. 


AND now it came to pass in the commencement of the 
twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over the 
people of Nephi, they having established peace between 
the people of Lehi and the people of Morianton concern- 
ing their lands, and having commenced the twenty and 
fifth yeer in peace; nevertheless, they did not long main- 
tain an entire peace in the land, for there began to be a con- 
tention among the people concerning the chief judge, 
Pahoran; for behold, there were a part of the people who 
desired that a few panicul points of the law should be 
altered. But behold, Pahoran would not alter, nor suffer 
the law to be altered; therefore he did not hearken to those 
who had sent in their voices with their petitions, concerning 
the altering of the law; therefore those who were desirous 
that the law should be altered, were angry with him, and 
desired that he should no longer be chief judge over the 
land; therefore there arose a warm dispute concerning 
the matter; but not unto bloodshed. : 

And it came to pass that those who were desirous that 
Pahoran should be dethroned from the judgment seat, were 
called king-men, for they were desirous that the law should 
be altered in a manner to overthrow the free government, 
and to establish a king over the land. And those who 
were desirous that Pahoran should remain chief judge over 
the land, took upon them the name of freemen; and thus 
was the division among them; for the freeman had sworn 
er covenanted to maintain their rights, and the privileges 
of their religion, by a free government. l 

And it came to pass that this matter of their contention 
wassettled, by the voice of the people. And it came to pass 
that the voice of the people came in favor of the freemen, 
and Pahoran retained the judgment seat, which caused 
much rejoicing among the brethren of Pahoran, and also 
many of the people of libertv; who also put the king-men 


a 


WS. - potato ardead 


to silence, that they dumt: not oppose, but were obliged to 
maintain the cause of freedom. Now those who were in 
favor of kings, were those of high birth; and they sought 
te be kings; and they were supported by those who sought 
power and authority overthe people. But behold, this was 
a critical time for such'contentions to be among the people 
of Nephi; for behold, Amaltekiah had again stirred up the. 
hearts of the people of the Lamanites, against the people of 
the Nephites, and he was gathering together soldiers, from 
all parts of his land, and arming them, and preparing for 
war, with all diligence, for'he haŭ sworn to drink the blood 
of Moroni. But behold, we shall see that his promise 
which he made, was rash; nevertheless, he did prepare 
himself and his armies, to come to battle againat the' Ne- 
phitee. Now his armies were not so great as they bad hith- 
orto been, because of the many thousands who had been 
slain by the hand of the Nephitds; but notwithstanding 
their great loss, Amatekiah had gathered together a won- 
derful great army, insomuch that he feared not to come 
down tothe land of Zarahemla. Yea, even Amalickiah 
did himself come down, at the head of the Lamanites. 
And it wasin the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the 
judges; and it was at the same time that they had began 
to settle the affairsof their contentions concerning the chief 
judge, Pahoran. ` f 

And it came fo pass that when the men who were called 
king-men, had heard thet the Lamanites were coming 
down to buttle against them, they were glad in their hearts, 
and they refused to take up arms; for they were so wroth 
with the chief {rdge. and also with the people of liberty, 
that they would not take up arms to defend their country. 
And it came to pass that when Moroni saw this, and also 
saw that the Lamanites were coming into the borders of 
the land, he was exceeding wroth, because of the stub- 
bornness of those people, whom he had labored with so 
much diligence to preserve; yea, hè was éxceeding wroth; 
his soul was filled with anger against them. And it came 
to pass that he sent a petition, with the voice of the people, 
unto the governor of the land, desiring that he should reed 
it, and give him, (Moroni,) power to compel those dissen- 
ters to defend their country, or to put them to death; forit 
was his first care to pat an end to such contentions, and 
dissensions among the people; for behold, this had been 
bitherto a cause of all their destruction. And it came to 
pass that it was granted, according to the voice of the 
people. foe , 

And it came to- pass that Moroni commanded that his 


-BOOK GE ALMA. (2p 


army should go‘against these king~-men, to pull down. their 
-pride and nobility, and level them with the earth, or they- 
should take up arms. and support the pause of liberty. 
And it came to pass that the armies did march forth against 
them; and they did puil down theiz prido and their nobili- 
ty, insomuch, that as they did lift their weapons of war to 
fight. against-the men of Moroni, they were hewn down, 
and levelled to the tarth. And it came to pass that there 
were four thousand of those dissenters, wha were hewn 
down by the sword; and those of their leaders who were 
not slain in battle, werte taken and cast into prison, fer 
there was no time for theirtrials at this period; and the 
‘remainder of those dissenters, rather than to be smote down 
‘to the earth by the sword, yielded to the standard of liber- 
ty, and were compelled. to hoist the title of liberty upon 
ir towers, and.in their cities, and to take up arms in 
defence of their country. And thus Moroni put an end to 
‘those king-men, that there were not any known hy the 
appellation of king-men; and thus he put an end to the 
stubbornness, and the pride of those — who professed 
the blood of nobility; but they were’ brought down to 
humble themselves like unto their brethren, and to fight 
valiantly for their freodom from bondage. 

Behold; it-eame to pass that while Moroni was thug pyeak- 
ing down the wars and contentions ameng his own people, 
and subjecting them to peace and civilization, and making 
regulations to. prepare for war against the Lamanites, be- 
hold, the Lamanites had come inte the land of Moroni, 
which was in the borders by the seashore. 

And it came to pase that the Nephites were not sufficent- 
ly strong in the city of Moroni; therefore Amalickiah did 

rive them, slaying many. And it came to pass that A ma- 
lickiah took possession of the city; yea, possession of all 
their fortifications. And those who ded ont of the eity of 
Moroni, came to the city of Nephihah'; and.alsothe people 
of the city of Lehi gathered themselves together, and made 
po paucal and were ready to receive the Lamanites to 
attlo. hs 
But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suffer 
the Lamanites to go against the city of Nephihah to battle, 
but kept them down by the seashore, leaving men in every 
city to maintain and defend it; and thus he went on, tak- 
ing possession of many cities: the city of Nephihah, and 
the city of Lehi, and the city of Morianton, and the city of 
Omner, and the city of Gid, and the city of Mulek, all of 
which were on the east borders, by the seashore. And thus 
. haü the Lantanites obtained, by the cunning of Amalickiah, 


‘SO BUOK OF SLBA. 


so many cities, by their numberiess hosts, all of which 

- were strongly fortified, after the the manner of the fortifica- 
tions of Moroni; ell of which afforded strong holds for the 
Lamenites. 

And it came to pass.that they marched ta the borders of 
the land Bountiful, driving the Nephites before them, and 
slaying many. But it came to pass that they were met by 
‘Leancum, who had slain Morianton, and had headed the 
people in -his flight. And it came to pass thet he headed 
Amalickiah also, and he was marching forth with his 
numerous army, that he might take possession of the land 
Bountiful, and also the land northward. But: behold, he 
met with a disappointment, by being repulsed by Tean- 
cum and his men, for they were great warriors; for every 
man of Teancum did exceed the Lamenites in their 
strength, and in their skill of war, insomuch that they did 
gain advantage over the Lamanites. 

sh it came to pase that they did harrass them, ingo- 
much that they did slay them even until it was dark. And 
it came to pass that Teancum and his men did pitch their 
tents in the borders of the land Bountiful; and Amalie- 
kiah did pitch his tents in the borders on the beach by the 
seashore, and after this manner were they driven. 

And it.came to pase that when the night had come, 
Teancum and his servant stole forth and went out 
night, and went into the camp of Amalickiah; and bebold, 
sleep had overpowered them, because of their much fatigue, 
which was caused by the lsbors and heat of the day. 

And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into the 
tent of the king, and put a javelin to his heart; and he did 
ceuse the death of the king immediately, that he did not 
awake his servants. And he returned again privily to his 
own camp, and behold, his men were asleep; and he awoke 
them, end told them all the things that he had done. And 
he caused that his’armies should stand in readiness, lest 
the Lamanites had awoke, and should come upon them. 
And thus ended the twenty and fifth year of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi; and thus ended the 
days of Amalickiah. 


aut > Gam 


i CHAPTER XXIV. 


Anp now it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year 
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, behold, 


, WOOK OF ALMA. i -304 


when the Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the 
first month, behold, they found Amalickiah was dead in. 
his own tent; and they also saw that Teancum was ready 
to give them battle on that day. And now when the 
Lamanites saw this, they were afrighted; and they aban- 
doned their design in marching to the land northward, and 
retreated with all their army into the city of Mulek, and 
sought protection in their fortifications. And it came to. 
pass that the brother of Amalickiah was appointed king 
over the people; and his name was Ammoron; thus king 
Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was appointe 
to reign in his stead, 
__And it came to-pass that he did command that his peo-. 
ple should maintain those cities which they had taken by 
the shedding of blood; for they had not taken any cities, 
save they had lost much blood. And now Teancum saw 
that the Lamanites were determined to maintain those cities 
which they had taken, and those parts of the land which 
they had obtained possession of; and also seeing the enormi- 
ty of their number, Teancum thought it was not expedient 
at he should attempt to attack them in their forts; but 
he kept his men round about, as if making preparationg 
for war; yea, and truly he was preparing to defend him- 
self against them, by casting up walls round about, and 
preparing places of resort. 

And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war, 
until Moroni had sent a large number of men to strengthen 
his army; and Moroni also sent orders unto him, that he 
should retain all the prisoners who fell into his hands; for 
as the Lamanites had taken many prisoners, that he should 
retain all the prisoners of the Lamanites, as a ransom for 
those whom the Lamanites had taken. And he also sent 
orders unto him, that he should fortify the land Bountiful, 
and secure the narrow pass which led into the lana north- 
ward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point, and 
should have power to harrass them on every side.. And 
Moroni also sent untohim, desiring him that he would be 
faithful in maintaining that quarter of the land,.and thathe 
would seek every opportunity to scourge the Lamanites in 
that quarter, as much as was in his power, that perhaps he 
might take again, by stratagem or some other way, those 
cities which had been taken out of their hands; and that 
he also would fortify and strengthen the cities round about, 
which had not fallen into the hands of the Lamanites, 
And he also said unto him, I would come unto you, but 
behold, the Lamanites are nen us in the borders of the 

l 


302 BOOK OF ALMA, 


land by the west sea; and behold, I go against thom, 
therefore I cannot come unto you. 

Now .the king (Ammoron,) hed departed out of thetand 
of Zarahemla, and made known unto the queen concern- 
ing the death of his brother, and had gathered together a 
large number of men, and had marched forth against the 
Nephites, on the borders by the west sea; and thus he wan 
endeavoring to harrass the Nephites and to draw away a 
part of their forces to that part of the land, while he had 
commanded those whom he had left to possess-the cities 
which he had taken, that they ‘should also harrass the 
Nephites on the borders by the east sea; and should take 
possession of their lands as much as it was in their power, 
according to the power of their armies. And thus were 
the Nephites in those dangerous circumstances, in the 
ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the 
_ judges over the people of Nephi. . 

But behold, it came to pass in the twenty ahd seventh 
year of the reign of the judges, that Teancum, by the 
command of Moroni, who had established armies to pro- 
tect the south and the west borders of the land, had began 
his march towards the land Bountiful, that he might as 
sist Teancum with his men, in retaking the cities which 
they had lost. And it came to pass that Teancum had 
received orders to make an attack upon the city of Mulek, 
and retake it if it were possible. ~ 

And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to 
make an attack upon the city of Mulek, and march forth 
with his arm — the Lamanites; but he saw that it 
was impossible that he could overpower them while they 
were in their fortifications; therefore he abandoned his 
designs, and returned again to the city Bountiful, to wait 
for the coming of Moroni, that he might receive strength to 
his army. 

And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his 
army to the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the 
twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges over 
the people of Nephi. And in the commencement of the 
twenty and eighth year, Moroni and Teancum, and many 
of the chief captains, held a council of war, what they 
should do to cause the Lamanites to come out against 
them to battle; or that they might by some means, flatter 
them out of their strong holds, that they might gain ad- 
vantage over them, and také again the city of Mulek. 

And it came to pass that they sent embassies to the army 
of the Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to 
their leader, whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he 


BOOK OF Aldy “2 


would, some outwith his armies to meet them upon the 
plains, between the two cities. But behold, Jacob who 
was a Zoramite, would not come eut with his army to 
meet them upon the plains. 

And it came to pass.that Moroni, having ro hopes of 
meeting them upon fair grounds, therefore he resolved 
upon a plan that he might decoy the Lamanites out of 
their strong holds. Therefore he caused that Teancum, 
should take a small number of men, and march down near 
the seashpre; and Moroni and his army, by night, marched 
in the wilderness, on the west of the city Mulek; and thus, 
on the morrow, when the guards of the Lamanites had 
discovered Teancum, they ran and told it unte Jacob, 
their leader. 

And it came pass that the armies of the Lamanites did 
march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers 
to overpower Teancum, because of the smallness of his 
numbers. And as Teancum saw the armies of the Lam- 
anites coming out against him, he began to retreat down 
by the seashore, northward. 

And it eame to pass that when the Lamanites saw that 
he began to flee, they took courage and pursued them with, 
vigor. And while ‘Teancum was thus leading away the 
Lamanites who were pursuing: them in vain, behold, 
Moroni commanded that a part of his army who were with 
him, should march forth into the,city, and take possession 
of it. And thus they did, and slew all those who had been 
left to protect the city ; yea, all those who would not yield 
up their weapons of war. And thus Moroni had obtained, 
possession of the city Mulek, with a part of his army, 
while he marched with the remainder to meet the Laman- 
ites, when they should return from the pursuit of Tean- 
cum. -> 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Tean- 
cum until they came near the city Bountiful, and then 
they.were met by Lehi, and a small army, which had been 
left to protect the city Bountiful. And now behold, when 
the chief captains of the Lamanites had beheld Lehi, with 
his army, coming against them, they fled in much con- 
fusion, lest perhaps they should not obtain the city Mulek, 
before Lehi should overtake them; for they were wearied, 
because of their march, and the men of Lehi were fresh. 
Now the Lamunites did not know that Moroni had been 
in their rear with his army; and all they feared, was Lehi 
and his men. Now Lehi was. not desirous to overtake 
them, till they should meet Moroni and his army. And 
it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated 


96i" BOOK OF ALWA. 


far, they were surrounded by the Nephites; by the men 
of Moroni on one hand, and the man of Lehi on the other, 
all of whom were fresh and full of strength; but the La- 
-‘manites were wearied, because of their long march. And 
Moroni commended his men that they should fall upon 
them, until they had given up their weapons of war. 

And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being 
also a Zoramite, and having an unconguerable spirit, he 
led the Lamanites forth to battle, with exceeding fury 
against Moroni. Moroni being in their course ef march, 
therefore Jacob was determined to slay them, and cut his 
way through to the city of Mulek. But behold, Moroni 
and his men were more powerful; therefore they did not 
give way before the Lamanites. 

And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with 
exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides; 

en, and Moroni was wounded, and Jacob was killed. And 
hi pressed upon their rear with such fury, with his strong 
men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their wea- 
ns of war; and the remainder of them, being much eon- 
used, knew not whether to go or to strike. Now Moroni 
seeing their confusion, he said unto them, if ye will bring 
forth your weapons of war, and deliver them up, behold we 
will forbear shedding your blood. And it came to pass 
that when the Lamanites had heard these words, their chief 
captains, all those who were not slain, came forth and 
threw down their weapons of war at the feet of Moroni, 
and also commanded their men that: they should do the 
seme: but behold, there were many that would not; and 
those who would not deliver up their swords, were taken 
and bound, and their weapons of war were taken from 
them, and they were compelled to march with their breth- 
ren forth into the land Bountiful. And now the number 
of prisoners who were taken, exceeded more then the num- 
ber of those who had been slain; yea, more then those who 
had been slain on both sides. : 

And it came to pass that they. did set guards over the 
prisoner of the Lamanites, and did compel them to go 
orth and bury their dead; yea, and also the dead of t 
Nephites who were slain; and Moroni placed men over 
them to guard them while they should perform their labors. 
And Moroni went te the city of Mulek with Lehi, and 
took command of the city, and gave it unto Lehi. Now 
behold this Lehi was a man who had been with Moroni in 
the more part of all his battles; and he wasa man like 
unto Moroni; and they rejoiced in each other’s safety; yea, 


ROOK OF Aii 


they wero beloved by each other, and algo beloved by alt 
the people of Nephi. 

And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had finished 
burying their dead, and alao the deed of the Nephites, they 
were marched back into the land Bountiful; and Teancumy, 
by the osders of Moroni, caused that they should commence 
laboring in digging a ditch round about the land, or the 
city Bountiful; and he caused that they should build a 
breastwork of timbers upon the inner bank of the ditch; 
and they cast up dirt out of the digch against the breast- 
work of timbers; and thus they did cause the Lamaniteg 
to labor, until they had encircled the city of Bountiful 
round about with a strong wall of timbers and earth, to an 
exceeding height. And this city became an exceeding 
strong hold ever after; and in this city they did guard the 
prisoners of the Lamanites; yea, ever within a wall, whigh 
they had caused them to build with their own hands. Now 
Moroni was compelled tv cause the Lamazites to labor, bes 
cause it were easy to guard them while at their Jaber; and 
he desired all his forces, when be should make an attack, 
upon the Lamanites. = 

And it came to pass that Moroni had thus gained a vice 
tory over one of. the greatest of the armies of the Laman. 
ites, and had obtained possession of tha city Mulek, which 
was one of the strongest holds of the Lemanites in the land 
of Nephi; and thus he had also built a strong bold to retain 
bis prisoners. And it came to.pasa that he did no more 
attempt a battle with the Lamanites in that year; but he 
did employ his men in preparing for war: yea, and in 
making fortifieatious to guard against the Lamanites; yea, 
and -also delivering.thetr women and their children from 
famine and affliction, amd providing foog for their armies, 

And now it came to pass that the armies of the Laman- 
ites, on the West Sea, south, while in the absence of Mo- 
Yoni, on account of some intrigué amongst the Nephites, 
whieh caused dissensions amongst them, had gained some 
gtound over the Nephites, yea, insomuch that they had ob- 
tained possession of a number of their cities in that part of 
the land; and thus because of iniquity amongst themselves, 
yea, because of dissensions and intrigue among themselves, 
they were plaged in the most dangerous circumstances. 

- And now behold, I have somewhat ‘to say concerning 

the peopie of Ammon, who, in the beginning, Were 

meanites; but by Ammon and his brethren, or rather by the 

— and word of Gad, they had been converted unto the 

Lord; and they hed been — down into the land of 
' 1 


v 


a6 BOOK OP ALNE 


Zárahomla, and had ever since been protected by the Ne- 
phites; and because of their oath, they had been kept from 
taking up arms agairfet their brethren; for they had taken 
an oath, that they neve? would shéd blood more; and at- 
cording to their oath, they would have perished; yea, they 
would have suffered themselves to have fallen into the 
hands of their brethren, had it not been for the pity and the 
exceeding love which Ammon and his brethren had had 
for them; and for thie cause, they were brought down into 
the land of Zarahemla; and they ever had been protected 
by the Nephites. . 

But it came to pass that when they saw the danger, and 
the many afflictions end tribulations which the ce 
bore for them, they were moved with compassion, and were 
desirous to take up arms in the defenee of their country, 
Bet behold, as they were sbout to take their weapons of 
war, they were overpowered by the persuasions of Helaman 
and his brethren, bor they were about to break the oath 
which they had made; and Helaman feared lest by so do- 
ing, they should lose their souls; therefore all those who 
had entered into this covenant, were compelled to behold 
their brethren wade through their afflictions, in their dan- 
gerous circumstances, at this time. But behold, it came 
to pase they had many sons, who had. not entered inte 
a covenant that they would not take their weapons of war 
to defend themselves against their enemies; therefore they 
did assemble themselves together at this time, as many as 
wete able to take up arms; and they called themeslves 
Nephites; and they entered into a covenant, to fight fos 
the liberty of the Nephites; yea, to protect-the land unto 
the laying down of their lives; yea, even they ebvonanted 
that they never waquid give up theisdiberty, but they would 
fight in all cases to protect the Nephites and themaclves 
from bondage. ; 

Now behold, there were two thousand of those young 
men who entered into this coverant, and took their‘avea- 
pons of war to defend their country. And-now behold, as 
they never had hitherto been a disadvantage to the Ne- 
phites, they became now at this period of time also a great 
support; for they took their w: of wax, andthey would 
that Helaman should be their leader. . And they. were all 
young men, and they were exceeding valiant fer co 
and also ‘for strength and activity; but behold, this was 
not all: they wore men who were true at all times in what- 
soever thing they were entrusted; ‘yea, they were men of 
truth and soberness, for they had been taught to keep the 
commandments of God, and te walk uprightly before him. 





! 


| 





BOOK: OF: ALMA og 


-- And now it came to pass that Helaman did mareh at the 
head of his twathousand stripling soldiers, to the eupport 
of the people in the borders.of the land on the south by the 
West Sea. And thus endad‘she twenty and eighth year 
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, é&c. 


a . 
—2>+ou- 
s t e e 


L A 


CHAPTER XXV. 


` AnD now it came to pass in the twenty and ninth year 
of the judges; that Ammoron sent unto Moroni, desiriag 
that he would exchange prisoners. And-it came to pass 
that Moroni felt to réjoice exceedingly at this request, for 
lie desired the provisions which were imparted for the sup- 
pert of the Lamanfte prisoners, for the support of his own 
people; and he also desired his own people ior the strength- 
ening of his army. Now the Lamanites had taken many 
women and children; and there was not a woman nora 
thild among all the prisoners of Moroni; or the prisoners 
whom Moroni had taken; therefore Moroni resolved upon 
a stratagem, to obtain as many prisoners of the Nephites 
from the Lamanites, asit were possible; therefore he wrote 
an epistle, and sent it by the servant of Ammoren, the same 
who had brought an epistle to Moroni. Now these are the 
words which he wrote unto: Ammoron, saying, behold, 
Ammioron, I have written unto you somewhat concerning 
this war which ye Have waged against my people, or rather 
which thy brother hath waged against them, and which 
tre ‘still determined to carry on after his death. Behold I 
would tell you something concerning the justice of God, 
and the sword of his Almighty wrath, which doth bang 
over you, except ye repent and withdraw your armies into 
your own lands, or the lands of your possessions, which is 
the land of Nephi; yea, I would tell you these things, if 
ye were capable of hearkening unto them; yea, I would 
tell you concerning that awful hell that awaits (0 receive 
such murderers as thou and thy brother have been, except 
ye repent and withdfaw your murderous purposes, and re- 
tum with your armies to your own lands; but as yo have 
jeena these things, and have fought against the people 
the Lord, even so I may expect you will do it again. 
And now behold, we are prepared to receive you; yea, 
and except you withdraw your purposes, behold, ye wiil 
pull down the wrath of that God whom you have rejected, 
Upon you, even to your utter degtruction; but as the Lotd 


we JOE OF ALME. 


frveth, oer armies shall come upon — ye wish: 
draw, and ye shalt saon be visited with death, for wo will 
retain our cities and our lands;. yea, and we will maintaig 
eur religion and the cause of our God. But behold, it ap- 
poseth me that I taik fo you concerning these things a 
vain; or it supposeth me that thou art a child of heil; 
therefore I will close my epistle, by telling you that I will 
not exchange prisoners, save it be on conditions that ye 
will deliver up a man, and his wife, and his ehildren, for 
one prisoner; if. this be the casé that ye will do it, I will 
exchange. And behold, if ye do not this, I will come 
against you with my armies; yea, even I will ‘arm my 
women and my children, and I willcome against you, and 
I will follow you evon into your own land, which is the 
land of our first inheritance; yea, and it shall be blood for 
dlood ; yea, life for life; and I will give you battle, even 
until you ars destroyed from off the face of the earth. Be 
hold, I am in my anger, and:alse my people; ye have 
sought to murder us, and we have. anly sought to defend 
ourselves. But bebeld, if ye séek to destroy us-more, we 
will peek to destroy you; yea, and we will seek our land 
of our fires inheritance. Now I close my epistle. Iam 
Moroni; I am leader of the people of the Nephites. 
Now it eame to pass that Ammoren, when he had te 
eeived this epistle he was angry; and he wrote anothet 
epistle unto Moroni; and these are the words which he 
wrote, saying, I am Ammeroa, the king of the Lamaniteay 
I am tho brother of Amatickiah, whom ye have murdered. 
Behold, I wiil avenge his blood upon you; yea, and I will 
come upon you with my armies, fer I fear not your threats 
nings. For behold, your fathers did wrong their brethren, 
insomuch that they did rob them of their right to the gor 
ernment, when it rightly belonged unto them. And now 
behold, if ye will lay down your arms, and subject your 
selves to bb.governed by those to whem the government 
doth rightly belong, then will I cause that my people shall 
lay down their weapons, and shall be at war no more. 
Behold, ge have breathed out many threatnings against 
me and my people: but behold, we fedr not your threst, 
nings; nevertheless, I will grant tg exchange prisoners 
according to your request, gladly, that,I may preserve m 
food for my men of was; and we will wage a war whic 
shali bė eternal, either to the subjecting the Nephites to 
oar authority, or to their eternal extinction. And as coir 
‘cerning that God whom ye say we have rejected, pebold, 
we know not such a being; neither do ye; but if it so be 
that there is auch a being, we know not but that he bath 


DOOK OF ALMS. 260. 


wade us ap well as you; and if it so be that there is a devil 
and a heli, behold, will he not send you there, to dwell 
with my brother, whom ye have murdered, whom ye have 
hinted that he hath gone to such a place? But behold, 
these things Gailetak not: Iam Ammoron, and a des 
ecendant of Zoram, whom your fatherg pressed and brought 
out of Jerusalem. And behold, now, i am a bold Laman- 
ite. Behold, this war hath been waged, to avenge their 
wrongs, and to maintain, and to obtain their rights to the 
government; and I close my epistle to Moroni. 

Now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this 
epistle, he was more angry, because he knew that A mmo- 
ton had a perfect knowledge of his fraud; yea, he knew 
that Ammoron knew that it was not a just cause that had 
caused him to wage a war againet the people of Nephi, 
And he said behold, I will not exchange prisoners with 
Ammoron, save he will withdraw his purpose, as I have 
stated in my epistle; for I will not grant unto him that he 
shall havo any more power than what he hath got. Be- 
hold, I know the place where the Lamanites doth guard 
my people, whom they have taken prisoners; and ss Am- 
moron would not grant unto me mine opistle, behold, I will 
give unto him according to my words; yea, I will seek 
death among them, until they shall sue for peace. An 
now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words, 
he caused that a search should be made among his men, 
that perhaps he might find a man who was a descendant 
of Laman among them. 
- And it came’ to pass that they found one, whose name 
was Laman; and he was.one of the servants of the king 
whe wae murdered by Amalickiah. Now Moroni caus- 
ed that Laman and. a small number of his men, should 
go forth unto the guards who were over the Nephites. 

ow the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; there- 
fore Moroni appointed Laman and caused that a small num- 
ber of men should go with him.’ 

And when it was evening, Laman went to the guards 
who were over thé Nephites, and behold, they saw him 
coming, and they hailed him. But he saith unto them, 
fear not, Behold, I am a Lamanitè. Behold we have es~ 
taped from the Nephites, and they sleepeth; and behold, 
we have took of their wine, and brought with us. Now 
when the Lamanits heard these words, they received him 
with joy. And they said unto him, give usof your wine, 
that we may drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken 
wine with you, for we ere weary. But Laman said unto 
them, let us keep of our wine till we go against the Nephites. 


8 BOOK OF ALMA. 


to battle, Bat this saying only made them more denizens 
to drink of the wine. For, said they, we are weary; there» 
fore let us take of the wine, and by and by we shal re- 
çeive wine for our rations, which will strengthen us to g9 
against the Nephites. And Laman said unto them, you 
may do according to your desires.. And it came to pass 
that they did take of the wine freely; and it was pleasant 
to their taste; therefore they took of it more freely; ard it 
was strong, having been prepared in its strength. 

And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and 
by and by they were ell drunken., And now when La- 
man aod his men saw that they were all drunken, and 
were ina deep sleep, they returned to Moroni, and told 
him all the things that had happened. And now this was 
according to the design of Moroni. And Moroni had pre» 
pared his men with weapons of war; and he sent to the 
city of Gid, while the Lamanitea were ina deep sleep, and 
drunken, and cast in the weapons of war in unto the piis 
oners, insomuch that they were all armed; yea, even to 
their women, and all those of their children, aa many as 
were able to use a weapon of war; when Moroni had 
armed all those — And all those things were done 
in a profound silence. But had they awoke the Laman 
ites, behold they were drunken, and the Nephites could 
have slain them. But behold this was not the desire of 
Moroni. He did not delight in murder or bleodshed; but 
he delighted in the saving of his people from destructions 
and for this cause he might not bring upon him injustice, 
he would not fall upon the Lamanites and destroy them 
in their drunkenness. . But he had obtained his desiress 
for he had armed those prisoners of the Nephites whe 
were within the wall of the city, and he gave them power 
to gain possession of those parts which were within the 
walla; and then he caused the men whe were with him, to 
withdraw a pace from them, and surround the armies of 
the Lamanites. Now behold, this was done in the night 
time, so that when the Lamanites awoke in „the morning, 
they beheld that they were surrounded by the Nephites 
without, and that their prisoners were armed within, Aad 
thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and 
in these circumstances they found that it was not expe- 
dient that they should fight with the Nephites; therefore 
their chief captains demanded their weapons of war, and 
they brought them forth, and cast them at the feet of the 
Nephites, pleading for mercy. Now behold, this was the 
desire of Moroni. He took them prisoners of war, and took 
possession of the city, and caused that all the prisoner 


ES rae: —— — 


BOOK OF SEMA. sA 


should bu liberated, who wero Nephites; and they did jolh 
the army of Moroni, arid were a great strength to hie army, 
' And. it ‘came to pass thet he did ¢ause the Lamanites 

whom he had taken prisoners, that they should commence 
a labor in,strengthoning the fortifications roand about the 
kity Gid. And it came to pass that when he hed fortified 
the city Gid, according to his desires, he caused that his 
prisoners should be taken to the city Bountiful. And hè 
also guarded that city with an exceeding strong force, 
And it came to pass that they did, notwithstanding all the 
intrigues of the Lamanites, Less and protect all the pris- 
aners whom they had taken, and also maintain all t 
pa and the advantage which they had retaken. An 

t came: to pass that the Nephites: began again tq be vieto» 
vious, and to reelaim their righte and their privileges. 
Many times did the Lamanites attompt to encircle them 
about by night, but.in these attempts they did lose many 
prisoners. And many times did they attempt to adminis- 
ter of their wine to the Nephites, that — destroy 
them with poison or with drunkenness. t behold, the 
Nephites were not slow to.remember the Lord their God, 
in this their times of affliction. They could not be taken 
in their snares; yea, they would not partake of their wine, 
save ‘they had firstly given to some of the Lamanite pris- 
eners. And they wege thus cautious, that no poison should 
be administered ain them; for if their wine would poi- 
son a Lamanite, it would also poison a Nephite; and thus 
they did try all their liquors. And now it came to pass 
that it was expedient for Moroni to make preparations to 
attack the city Mortanton. For behold, the Lamanites 
had, by their labors, fortified the city Morianton until it 
had become an exceeding strong hold; and they were 
eontinually bringing new forces into that city, and also 
new supplies of provisions. And thus ended the twenty 
tnd ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people 
of Nephi. i 


J, 


CHAPTER XXVI. 


ANnp now it came to pass in the commencement of the 
thirtieth year of the reign of the judges, in the second 
day, on the first month, Moroni received an epistle from 
Helaman, stating the affairs of the people in that quarter 
of the land. And these-are the words which he wrote, 


3” DOOM, OF ALMA. 
saying, my deerly beloved brother, Moreni, as walija 
the Lord as in the tribulations of our warfare; beheld, my 
beloved brother, I have somewhat to tell you ‘concersing 
our warfare in this part of the land. d, two thon- 
sand of the sons of those men whom Ammop bronghs 
down out of the land of Nephi. Now. ye have knows 
that these were a descendant of Laman, who was the elè 
eat son of our father Lehi. Now need not rehearse unte 
ou concerning their traditions or their unbelief, for thou 
powest concerning all these things; therefore, it sufficeth 
me that I tell you that two thousand of these young mea 
have taken their weapons of war, and would that I should 
be their leader; and we have come forth to defend our coun 
oy And now ye also know concerning the covenent 
which their fathers made, that they. would not take 
their weapons of war against their brethren, to shed blood, 
But in the twenty and sixth year, when they saw our af 
flictions and our tribulations for them, they were abeut.to 
break the covenant which they had made, and take up 
their weapons of war in our defence. But I would not 
suffer them that they should break thie covenant which 
they had made, supposing that God would strengthen us, 
insomuch that we should not suffer more because of the 
fulfilling the oath which they had taken. But behold, 
here is one thing in which we may. baye poai joy. For 
behold, in the twenty and sixth yðar, I Helaman, did 
march at the head of these two thousand young men, te 
the city of Judea, to assist Antipus, whom ye had appoint- 
ed a leader over the people of that part of the land, And 
I did join my two thousand sone, (for they are worthy to 
be called sons) to the army of Antipua; in which strength 
Antipus did rejoice exceedingly; for behold, his army bad 
been reduced by the Lamanites because their forces had 
slain a vast namber of our men; for which cause we bave 
to mourn. Nevertheless, we may conaole ourselves in thie 
point; that they have died in the cause of their country 
and of their God; yea, and they are happy. And the La- 
manites had also retained many prisoners, all of whom are 
chief captains; for none other have they spared alive. 
And we suppose that they are now at thie time in the land 
of Nephi; it is soif they are not slain. And now these 
are the cities which the Lamanites have obtained posses 
sion, by the shedding of the blood of so many of our val- 
iant men: The land of Manti, or the city of Manti, and 
the city of Zeezrom, and the city of Cumeni, and the city 
of Antiparah. And these are the cities which they 
ed when I arrived at the city of Judea; and I found An- 








Tre eee 


BOOK OF algias M 


tipas and his men toiling with their mighta to fortify the 
qity; yea, and they were depressed in body as well as in 
spirit; for they had fought valiantly by day, and toiled by 
night, to maintain their cities; and thus they had suffered 
gteat.aflictione of every kind. And now they were de= 
termined to conquer in this place, or die; therefore you 
may well suppose that this little force which I brought 
with me; yer, those sons of mine, gave them great hopes 
and much joy. 
nd new it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw 

that Antipus had reccived a greater strength to his army, 
they were ———— the orders of Ammoron, to not 
come against the city of Judea, or-against.ua to battle, 

nd thus Were we favored of the Lord: for had they come 
upon-us in this our weakness, they might have perhaps 
destroyed our little army: but thus were we preserved. 
They were commanded by Ammoron to maintain those 
cities which they had taken. And thus ended the twenty 
and sixth year. And in the commencement of. the twenty 
and sevanth year, we had prepared our city and ourselves 
for defence. Now we were desirous that the Lamanites 
should come upon us; for we were not desirous to make 
an attack upon them in their strong holds. And it came 
to pass that we kept spies out round about, to.watch th 
movements of the Lamanites, that they might not pass us 
by night, nor by day, to make an attack upon our other 
elties, which were on the northward; for we knew in those 
cities they were not sufficiently strong to meet them; there- 
fore we wete desirous, if they should pass by us, to fall 
upon them in their rear, and thus bring them up in the 
Tear, at the same time they were met in the front. We 
supposed that we could overpower them; but behold, we 
were disappointed in this our desire. They durst not pasa 
by us with their whole army; neither durst they with a 
part, lest they should not be sufficiently strong, and they 
should fall. Neither durat they march down against the 
city of Zarahemla; neither durst they crose the head of 
Sidon, over to the city of Nephihah. Aad thus, with 
their forces, they were determined to maintain those cities 
which they had taken. 

And now it came to pass, in the second month of this 
year, there was brought unto us many provisions, from the 
fathers of those my two thousand sons. And also there 
was sent two thousand men unto as, from the land of Za- 
Yehemla, And thus we were prepared with ten thousand 
men, and provisiona for n and also for their wives, and 


s 


M BOOM ‘OF ALMA. 


their-children. And thoLamanites, thus seciug oerfer- 
cos increase daily,and provisions arrive for. our -support, 
they began to be fearful, and began to sally forth, if:is 
were possible, to put an end to ows receiving provisions 
and strength. New when we saw that the Lamanites be- 
gan to grow uneasy on.this wise, we were desirousto bring 
a stratagem injo effect.upon them: therefore Antipus: oF 
dered that I should march. forth with my little sons, to: a 
neighboring city, as if we were carrying provisiens toa 
neighboring city. And wè were to march near the city of 
Antiparah, as if we were going tothe city.beyond, in the 
borders by the seashore. And.it came to pass- that wedid 
march forth, as if with our provisions, to go to that city. 
And it came to pass that Antipus did march forth, with a 
pert.of his army, leaving the remginder to maintain the 
city. But he did net march forth, until I had gene forth 
with my little army, and came near the city Antiparah. 
And now in the city Antiparah, were stationed the strong- 
est army of the Lamanites; yea, the most numerous. Aad 
it came.to pass that when they.had been informed, by their 
spies, they came forth with their. army, and marched 
against us. te ; 
And it came to pass that we did flee before them, north- 
Ward, And thus we did lead away the most powerfularmy 
ef the Lamanites; yea even toa considerable distance, 
insomuch that when they saw the army of .Antipus parsu- 
ing them,.with their mights, théy did not turn to the right 
ner to the left, but pursued their march in a straight cousse 
after us: and, as we supposed, it was their intemt to slay 
us before Antipus should overtake them, and this that 
they might not be surrounded by our people. And now 
Antipus, sere our danger, did speed the march of his 
army. But behold, it was night; therefore they did not 
overtake us, neither did Antipus overtake them; therefore 
we did camp for the night. 
And it came to pass that before the dawn.of the mora- 
ing, behold, the Lamanites were pursuing us. Now we 
were not sufficiently strong to contend with them; yea I 
would not suffer that my little sons should fall into their 
hands; therefore we did continue our march; and we wok 
eur maich into the wilderness. Now they duwt not turn 
to the right nor:to the leit, lest they should be surrounded : 
neither would I turn to the right or to the left, lest they 
should overtake me, and we could not stand against ther, 
but be slain, and they would make their escape; and thus 
ve ` fes all that day into the wilderness, even antil it 
‘Was dark, f , . : 


BOOK OF ALMA, TR 


, Ade ĩt cume to pass that again when the light of the 
morning came, we saw the Lamanites upon us, and we 
did fee before them. But it came to pasa that.they did 
Rot -pursne.us far, before they halted; and it was in the 
morning of the third day, onthe seventh month. And 
now. whether they.were overtaken by Antipus, we knew 
not; but I ssid unto my mea, behold, we know not but 
they have helted for.the purpose that we should come 
againet them, that they might catch us in their snare; 
therefore what say yes my sone, will ye go against them to 
batthe? - And now i say unto you my beloved brother Mo- 
toni, that never. had ł seen so great courage, nay, not 
amongat ell the Nephites. For as 1 had ever called them 
my sens, (for they were all of them very goung.) oveñń 20 
they said unto me, father, behold, our is with us, and 
he will not suffer that we'shall fall; then lot us go forth; 
we would not slay our -brethren, if they would let us 
alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the 
army of Antipus. Now they nevet had fought, yct they 
did not fear death: and age did think more upon the lib- 
erty of their fathers, than they did upon their lives; yea, 
they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did 
mot doubt, that God would deliver them. And they re 
hearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying we do 
not doubt our mothers knew it. 

Aad is came to pass that I did retyrn-with my two thon- 
snd, inst these Lamanites who had pursued us. And 
now behold, the: armies of Antipus had overtaken them, 
and a terrible battle had commenced. The army of Anti- 
pus being weary, because of their long mareh in so short 
a wpace of time, were about to fall into the hands of the 
Lamanitee; and had I not returned with my two thousand 
they would have obtained their purpose; for Antipus had 
failen by the sword, and many of his leaders, because of 
their weariness, which was occasioned by the speed of their 
mah ; therefore the men of Antipus being eonfused, be- 
cause of the fall of teir leaders, began to give way before 
the Lamanites. .- : 

And it came to pass thatthe Lamenites took courage, 
and began to pursue them; and thus were the Lamanites 
pursuing them with great vigor, when Helaman came upon 
their ross with his two thousand, and began to slay them 
exceedingly, insomuch that the whole army of the Leman- 
ites halted, ead turned upon Helaman. Now when the 
people of Antipussaw thatthe Lamenites had tarned them 
about, they gathered together their mes, and came again 
upess the rear of the Lamanites, 


378 BOOK: OF ALMA. 

And now it came to pass that we, the people of Nephi, 
the people of Antipus, and I-with, * two thousand, did 
surround.the Lamanites, and did slay them; yea, insomuch 
that they were compelled to deliver up their weapons of 
war, and also themselves as prisoners of war. 

And now it came to pasa that when they had surrender- 
ed themselves up unto us, behold, I numbered thoge young 
men who had fought with me, fearing lest there were many 
of them slain. But behold, to my great joy, there had not 
ane soul of them fallen to the earth; , and they had 
fought as if with the strength of God; yea, never were 
men known to have fought with such miratulous strength; 
and with such mighty power did they fall upon the Laman- 
ites, that they did frighten them; and for this ceuse did 
the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war. 
And as we had no plase for our prisoners, that we could 
guard them to keep them from the armies of .the Laman- 
ites, therefore we sent them to the land of Zarahemla, and: 
& part of those men who were not slain of Antipus, witk 
them; and the: remainder I took and joined them to. my 
— ling Ammonites, and took our.march back to the city 
of Judea. l 

And now it came to pass that I received an epistle from 
Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would deliver up those 
prisoners of war whom we had taken, that he would deliv- 
er up the city of Antipareh unto us. But I sent an epistle 
unto the king, that we were sure our forces were sufficient 
to take the city of Antiparah by our force; and by deliver- 
ing up the prisoners for that city, we should suppose our- 
selves unwise, snd that we would only deliver up our pris- 
oners on exchange. And Ammoron refused mine epistle, 
for he would not exchange prisoners; therefore we boran 
to make preparations to go gmn the city of Antiparah. 
But the people of Antipargh did leave the city, and fled to 
their other cities which they had ion of, to fortify 
them; and the city of Antiparah fell into ourhands. And 
Prp ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the 
judges. ; 

And it came to pass that in thb commencement of the 
twenty and ninth year, we received a supply of provisions, 
and also an addition to our army, from the land of Zare- 
hemla, and from the land round about, to the number of 
six thousand men, beside sixty of the sons of the Ammon- 
ites, who had come to ‘join their brethren, my little band 
of two thousand. ape now behold, we were strong; yoa, 
and we had also a plenty of provisions brought unto us. 

And it came to pase that it was our desire to wage a battle 


BOOK OF ABILA. - ‘OY 


with the army which was placed to protect the city Came 
ni. And:new behald, I wili shew ‘unto you that we soon 
accomplished our desire; yea, with our strong force, or with 
& part ef our strong force, we did surround, by night, the 
city Cumesi, a little before they, were to receive a supply 
ef provisions. : And it came to pass that we did camp round 
ébout the city for manynights; but-we did sleep upon owr 
aworda, and: kesp guards, that the Lamanites could not 
come upon us by night, and slay us, which they attempted 
many times; but as many times as they attempted this, 
their hlood was spilt. Atlength their provisions did arrive, 
and they were shout to.enter the city by night. And we, 
instead of being Lamamnites, were Nephites; therefore, we 
did take them and their provisions. And notwithstanding 
the Lamanites being cut off frem their support after thia 
maaner, they were still determined to maintain the city 
therefore it became expedient that we should take those 
visions and send them to Judea and our provisions to the 
d of Zarahemla. . 

And it came to pass that not many days kad passed away, 
befare the Lamanites bagan.to lose all hopes of succors 
therefore they yielded up the city into our hands; and thua 
we bad aceomplished our designs, in obtaining the city 
Cumeni. But it came to pass that our prisoners were nus 
merous, that notwithstanding the snormity of our numbers, 
we were obliged to. employ all our force to keep them, os 
to put them to death. For behold they would break out in 
great numbers, and would fight with stones, and with chaba, 
or whatsoever things they could get into their hands, inso~ 
much that we did slay upwards of two thousand of them, 
after they had surrendered’ themselves prisoners of war; 
therefore it be¢ame-expedient for us, that we should pug 
an end to their lives, or guard them, sword in hand, down 
to the land of Zarahemla; and also our pravisions were net 
any more than sufficient for our awa people, notwithstand- 
ingthst which we had taken from the Lamanites. A 
now, in those critical circumstances, it became a very seri- 
oms nratter to determine concerning these prisoners of-war, 
nevertheless, we did resolve tá send them- down to the land 
of Zarahemla; therefore we selected a part of our mer, 
and gave them charge over our prisenera, to go down ta 
the jand of Zaraheria. e 

But it came to pass that on the morrow, they, did return, 
And now behold, we did not inquire of them concerning 
the prisoners; for behold, the. anites were upon us, 
and they reterned in — to eave us from falling inte 


378 DOOK OF ALMA, : 


their hands. For behold, Ammoron had sent to theit 
support a new supply of provisions, and also a numerous 
atmy of men. i i 

And it ‘came to pass that those men whom we sent with 
the prisoners, did arrive‘in season to.check them, as th 
were about te overpower us. But behold, my little band 
of two thousand and sixty, fought most desperately; yea, 
they were firm before the Lamanites, and did .admizis- 
ter death unto all those who opposed them; and as the Te- 
mainder of our ‘army were about to give way before the 
Lamanites, behold, those two thousand and sixty were fitm 
and undaunted : -yea, and they did obey and observe to per- 
form every word of commend with exactness; yoa, and 
even according to their faith, it was done unto them; and 
I did remember the words which they said unto me that 
their mothers had taught them. And now behold, it was 

ese, my sons, and those men who had been selected:to 
convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this t wictory; 
for it was they who did beat the Lamanites; therefore they 
were driven back to the eity of Manti. And we retained 
our city Cumeni, and were net all destroyed by the sword; 
nevertheless, we had suffered great lose. 

And it came to pass thet after the Lamanites had fied, I 
immediately gave orders that my men who had been 
wounded, should be taken from among the dead, and caus- 
ed that their wounds should be dressed. And it came to 
pasa that there were two hundred, out of my two thousand 
and sixty, who had fainted because of the loss of blood; 
nevertheless, according to the goodness of God, and to our 
great astonishment, and also the foes of our whole army, 
there was not one soul of them who did perish; yea, and 
neither was there one soul among them who had not re- 
ceived many wounds. Arid now, their preservation was 
astonishing to our whole army; yea, that they should be 
spared, while there was a thousand of our brethren who 
were slain. And we do justly ascribe it to the miracubous 
power of God, because of their exceeding faith in that 
which they had been taught to believe, that there was a 
joet God; and whosoever did not doubt, that they should 

reserved by his marvelous power. Now this was the 
faith of these of whom I have spoken; they are young, and 
their minds are firm; and they do put their trust in God 
continually, 

And now it came to pass that after we had thus taken 
eare of our wounded men, and.had buried our dead, and 
adso the dead of the Lamanites, who were many, behold, 
we did inquire of Gid concerning the prisoners whom they 


2 * A eee a RO TR ~ — 


BOSE OF ALMA. 37e 


had started to go dewp to the land of Zarahemla with. Now: 
Gid was the chief captgin over the band who was appoint« 
ed to.guard them down to the land. And now, these are 
the words which Gid said unto me, behold, we did. start 
to go down to the land of Zarahemle with our prisoners, 
And. it came to pass that we did meet the spieseof our ar 
mies, who had been sent out to watch the camp of the La- 
manites. And they cried unto us, saying, behold, the armies 
of the Lamanités are marching towards the city of Cumeni; 
—— they will fall upon them, and will destroy our. 
eople. | 

i And it cenie te. pass that our prisoners did hear their 
cries, which caused them to take courage; and they did 
rise up in rebellion against us; And it came to pass be- 
cause of their rebellion, we did cause that ourswords should 
come upon them. And it came to pass that they did, ina 
body, run upon our swords, in the which, the greater nume 
ber of thom were slain; and the remainder of them broke 
through and fied from us. And ‘behold, when they had 
fled, and. we could not overtake them, we took our march 
with speed towards the city Cumeni; and behold, we did 
arrive in time that we might assist our brethren in preserv- 
ing the city. And behold, we are again delivered out of 
the hands of our enemies. And blessed is the name of our 
God: for behold, it is he that has delivered us;. yea, that 
has done this great thing for us. f 

: Now it came to pass that when I; Helaman, had heard 
these words of Gid, I was filled with exceeding joy, be« 
cause of the goodness of God in preserving us, that we 
might not all perish; yea, and I trust that the souls of 
them who have been slain, have entered into the rest of 
their God. . — 

And behold, now it came to pass that our next object was 
to obtain the city of Manti; but behold, there was no way 
that we could lead them.out ofthe city, by our smali bands: 
For behold they remembered’ that which we had hitherta 
done; therefore we could not decoy them away from their 
strong holds; and they were so much more numerous than 
was our army, that we durst not go forth and attack them 
in-their strong holds. Yea, and it became expedient that 
we should employ our mèn, to the maintaining those parts 
of the land, of the which we had retained of our pomem 
sions; therefore it became expedient that we should wait, 
that we might receive more strength from the land of Za» 
rahemila, and also a new supply of provisions. < : 

And it came to- vans thet h us did ‘send en embassy te 
the governor of our land, to acquaint him concersing the 


3 BOGE OF ALMA. . 


offsite of our people. And it came to pasa that. wie did weit 
to receive provisions and’ strength, from the land of Zeser 
homila. But behold, this did not profit us but litte; for the 
Lamanites were also receiving great strength, from day ta 
day, and glso many provisiqns; and thus were aur circum 
stances atthis period of time. And the Lamanites werg 
sellying forth against us, from time to time, resolving by 
stratagem, to destroy us; nevertheleas, we could not come: 
to battle with them, because of their retreats and their 
strong holde. : 

And it came to pass that we did wait ir these difficalt 
circumstances, fer the space af many months, even until 
we were about to perish for the want of food. But it came 
to pass that avg did receive foad, which was guarded to us 
by an army of two thousand men, to our assistance; and 
this is all the assistance which we did receive, to defend 
ourselves and our couptry from falling into the hands of 
our enemies; yea, to contend with an enemy which was 
innumerable. And now the cause of these our ambarrase- 
ments, or the cause why they did not send more nb 
unto us, we knew not; therefore we were grieved, and a 
filted with fear, lest by any means the judgments of God 
should comb upon our land, to our oyerthrow-and utter de- 
struction; therefore we did pour out our soule in prayer te 
God, that he would strengthen us and deliver us out of the 
hands of our enemies; yea, end also give us strength, that 
we might retein our cities, and our lands, and our posaes- 
sions, for the support of our people. Yea, and it came te 
pass that the Lord our God did visit ue with assuraness, 
that he would deliver us; yea, iasomuch that he did speak 
peace to our souls, and di ant unto ua greet faith, and 
did cause us that we should hope for our deliverance ia. 
him; and we did take courage with our small force which 
we lied received, and were fixed with ẹ determingtion ta 
conquer our enemies, and tò maintain our lands, aad aur 
possessions, and our wives, and our children, and. the cayeq 
ef our liberty. And thus we did go forth with all our might, 
against the Lamanites, who weres ia the city of Manti; aad. 
we did pitch our tents by the wilderness side, which wag 
near to the city. And it came.to pasathat.on the morrow, 
that when the Lamanites saw that we were in the border 
by the wilderness whieli waa near the city, that they sent 
Gut thoir spies round about us, thas they might discovers the 
number and the atreagth of ous army. 

And it came ta pass that when they saw that we were aot 
strong, according to our aumber, and fearing that we 
eHovld ent themoff from theis support, except shey ahold 





BOOK OF ALMA, 38! 


came out to battle against us, and kill us, and also suppos- 
ing that they could easily destroy us with their numerous 
hosts, therefore they began to make prepafations to come 
out against us to battle. Amd when we saw that th 

were making preparations to come out against us, behold, 
I caused that Gid, with a small number of men, should 
secrete himself in the wilderness, and also that Teomner 
should, with a small number of men, secrete themselves 
also in the wilderness. Now Gid and his mea -were on 
the right, and the others on the left; and when they had 
thus secreted themselves, behold, I remained with the res 
mainder of my army, in that same place where we had first 
pitched our tents, against the time that the Lamanites 
should come out to battle. f 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites, did come out 
with their numerous army against us. And when they had 
come and were about to fall upon us with the sword, I 
caused that my men, those who were with me, shoulda ret 
treat into the wilderness. 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites did follow after 
us with great speed, for they were exceedingly desirous 
to overtake us, that they might slay us; therefore they did 
follow us into the wilderness; and we did pass by in the 
midst of Gid and Teomner, insomuch that they were not 
discovered. by the Lamanites. . 

And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had pass- 
ed by, or when the army had passed by, Gid and Teomner 
did rise ‘up from their secret places, and did cut off the 
spies of the Lamanites, that they shoufd not return to the 
city. And it came to pass that when they had cut them 
of. they ran to the city, and fell upon the guards who 
were left to guard the city, insomuch that they did destroy 
them, and did take possession of the city. Now this was 
done because the Lamanites did suffer their whole army, 
save a few guards only, to be led Away into the wilder- 
ness 

And it came to pass that Gid and Teomner, by this 
means, had obtained possession of their strong holds. 
And it cgme to pass that we took our course, after havin 
travelled much in the wilderness, towards the land o 
Zarahemla. And when the Lamanites saw that.they were 
marching towards the land of Zarahemla, they were ex- 
ceeding raid, lest there was a plan laid to lead them on 
to destruction; therefore they began to retreet into tha 
wilderness again, yea, even back by the same way which 
they had came. ‘And behold, it was night, and they did 
pitch their tents; for the chief captains of the Lamanites 


382 POOK OF ALMA, 


had supposed that the Nephites were-weary, because of, 
their.march; and supposing that net had driven theix 
whole army, therefore they took no thought concerning 
the city of Manti. r 5 of ahs oh 
ow it came to pass that when it wes night, that I 
çaused that my men should not sleep, but that they should 
march forward, by another way, towards the land of 
Manti. And because of this our march in the night time, 
behold, on the morrow, we were beyond the Lamanites, 
insomuch that we did arrive before them to the city of 
Manti. And thus it came to pass, that by this stratagem, 
we did take possession of the city of Manti, without the 
shedding of blood. 
And it came to pass that when the armies of the Laman- 
ites did arrive near the city, and saw that we were pre- 
pared, to meet them, they were astonished exceedingly, 
and struck with great fear, insomuch that they did flea 
into the wilderness. Yea, and it came.to pags that the 
` armies of the Lamanites did flee out of all this quarter of 
the land. But behold, they have carried with them many 
women and children out of the land. And those citica 
which had been. taken by the Lamaniteg, all of. them are 
at this period of time in our possession; and our fathers, 
and our women, and our children, are returning to their 
homes, all save it be those who have been taken prisoners 
and carried off by the Lamanites. But behold, our armies 
are small, to maintain so great a number of cities, and so 
great possessions. But behold, we trust that our God, 
who has given us victory over those lands, insomuch that 
we have obtained those cities and those lands, which were. 
ọur own. Now we do not know the cause that the gov- 
ernment does not grant us more strength; neither do those 
men who came up unto us, know why we have not re- 
ceived greater strength. Behold, we do not know but 
what ye are unsuccessful, and ye have drawn away the 
forces into that quarter of the land; if so, we do not degire 
‘to murmur And if it is not so, behold, we féar that there 
ig some faction in the government, that they do not send 
more men to our assistance; for we know that they are 
more numerous than that which they have sent. But be- 
hold, it mattereth not; we trust God will deliver us, not- 
withstanding the weakness of our armies, yea, and de- 
liver us out of the hands of our enemies. Behold, this is 
the twenty and ninth year, in the latter end, and we are 
in the pogsession of our lands; and the Lamanites have 
fled to the land of Nephi. And those sons of the people 
of Ammon of whom I have so highly apoken, are with me 





MOOR. OF AERA. ees 


_ be the city of Manti; and the Lord has supported ther, 
yea, and kept them from falling by the sword, insomuch 
that even one soul has not been slain. But behold they 
have received many wounds;. nevertheless they stand fast 
in that liberty wherewith God has made them free; and 
— are strict to femember the Lord their God, from day 
to day; yea, they do observe to keep his statutes, and his 
judgments, and his commandments continually; and thei? 
faith iş strong in the prophecies concerning that which ie 
to come. And now my beloved’brother Moroni, that thé 
Lord our God who has redeemed us and made us free, 
may keep you continually in his presence; yea, and that 
he may favor this people, even that ye may have success. 
in obtaining the possession of: all that which the Laman- 
ites have taken from us, which was for our suppart. And 
aa oe I close mine epistle, I am Helaman, the soa 
of Alma. 


— A C 


CHAPTER XXVII. 


Now it came to pas in the thirtieth year of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi, after Moroni had re- 
ceived and had read Helaman’s epistle, he was exceeding- 
ly rejoiced because of the welfare, yea, the exceeding 
sucoess which. Helaman had had, in obtaining those lands 
which were lost; yea, and he did make it known unto all 
his people in aH the land round about in that part where’ 
he was, that they might rejoice also. 

And it came to pass that he immediately sent an epistle’ 
to Pahoran, desiring that he should cause men to be 
gathered together, to strengthen Helaman, or the armies’ 
of Helaman, insomuch that he might with ease maintain 
that. part of the land which he had been so miraculously 

tospered in rotaining. And it came to pass when Moroni 
had sent this epistle to the land of: Zarahemla, he began 
again. to lay a.plan, that he might obtain the remainder of ,' 
those possessions and cities which the Lamanites had 
taken from them.’ f 

And it' came to pass that while Moroni was thus making ' 
preparations to go’ against the Lamanites to battle, behold, 
the people of Nephihah who were gathered together from 
the city of Moroni, and the city of Lehi, and the city of 

rianton, were attacked ee Lamanites; yea, even’ 
6 


o 
those .whe:isad boon compelled to fee from the land of 


oe BOOK OF ALMA. 


Manti, and from the land round about, had come ovpreand 
joined the Lamenites in this part of the land; and thas 
eing exceeding numerous, yea, and receiving 

from day to day, by the command of Ammoron, they 
came forth against the people of Nephibah, and they did 
begin to slay them with en-exceeding great slaughter. 
And their armies were so numerous, that the remainder 
of the people of Nephihah were obliged to flee before them; 
and they came even and joined the army of Moroni. And 
now as Moroni had supposed that there should-be men 
sent to the city of Nephibah, to the assistance of the peo- 
ple to maintain that city, and knowing that it was easier 
to keep the city from falling into the hands of the Laman- 
itea, than to retake it from them, he supposed that 
woald easily maintain that city; therefore he retained 
his force to maintain those places which he had recovered. 

And now when Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah 
was lost, he was exceeding sorrowful, and began to doubt, 
because of the wickedness of the people, whether they 
should not fall into the hands of their brethren. Now this 
was the case with all his chief captains. They doubted 
and marvelled also, because of the wickedaess of the peo- 
ple; and this because of the success of the Lamanites 
over them. And it came.to'pass that Moroni was angry 
with the government, because of their indifference con- 
cerning the freedom of their country. 

And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor 
of the land, who was Pahoran, and these are the words 
which he wrote, saying, behold, I direct mine epistle to 
Pahoran, in the city of Zarahemla, who is the chief j 
and the governor over the land, and also to all those wh 
have been chosen by this people to govern and manage the 
affairs of this‘war; tor behold, I have somewhat to say unto 
them by the way of condemnation; for behold, ye your- 
selves know that ye have been appointed to gather together 
men, and arm them with swords, and with cimeters, and 
all manner of weapons of war, of every kind, and send forth 
against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they should 
come into our land. And now behold, I say unto you, that 
‘myself, and also my men, and also Helaman and his men, 
have suffered exceeding great sufferings; yea, even hun- 
ger, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner of afflictions of ev- 
ery kind. But behold, were this all we ‘had suffered, we 
would not murmur nor complain; but.behold, great has 
been the slaughter — our people: yea, thousands have 
fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise been, 
if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient strength and 


BOok.OF ALMs. $05. 


suevor for them. Yeu, great has been your neglect towards 
us. And now behold, we desire to know the cause of this- 
exceeding great neglect; yes, we desire to know the cause 
of your thoughtless state. Cdn you think to sit upon your 
thrones, in a state of thoughtless stupor, while your ene- 
mies are spreading the work of death around you? Yea, 
while they are murdering thousands of your brethren; yea, 
even they who have looked up to you for protection, yea, 
have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored 
them; yea, ye might have sent armies unto them, to have 
stre ened them, and have saved thousands of them from 
falling by the sword! But behold, this is not all, ye have: 
withheld your Penoas from them, insomuch that many 
have fought and bied out their lives'because of their great: 
desires which they had for the welfare of this people; yea, 
and this they have done, when they were about to perish 
with hunger, because of your exceeding great neglect to: 
wards them. And now, my beloved brethren; for y<had} 
ought to be beloved; yea, and — to have stirred 
yourselves more diligently for the Welfare and the freedom 
of this people; but behold, ye have neglected them, inso- 
much that the blood of thousands shall come upon your 
heads for vengeance; yea, for known unto God were all 
their gries, and ail their sufferings. Behold, could ye sup- 
pose that ye could sit-upon your thrones, and because of 
the exceeding goodness of God, ye could do nothing, and 
he would deliver you? Behold, if ye have supposed this, 


. ye have supposed in vain. Do ye suppose that, because so 


many of your brethren have been killed, it is because of their 
wiekedness? I say unto you, if ye have supposed this, ye 
have supposed in vain; for I say unto you, there are many 
who have fallen by the sword; and behold, itis to your 
eondemnation; for the Lord suffereth the righteous to be 
alain, that his justice and judgment may come upon the 
wicked; therefore ye need not suppose that the righteous 
are lest because they are slain; but behold, they do enter 
into the test of the Lord their God. And now behold, I 
say unto you, I fear exceedingly that the judgments of God 
wili come upon this people, because of their exceeding 
stothfulness; yea, even the slothfulness of our government, 
and their exceeding great neglect towards their brethren, 
yea, towards those who have been slain: For were it not 
for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we 
could have withstood our enemies, that they could have 
gained no power over us; yea, had it not been for the war 
‘which broke out among. sie yea, were it not for 


bg JOOK: OF sch. 


theee king-ten, whe caused so much bloodshed ‘wmsng: 
@urselves; yea, at the time we wers contending amoni. 
ourselves, if we had united our strength, as we hitherw 
have done; yea, had it not been for the desire of power 
aad authority which those king-men'‘had over us; had thoy 
heen true to the cause of our freedom, and united with us; 
and gone forth against our: enemies, instead of taking u 
their swords against us, which was the cause of so muc 
bloodshed among ourselves; yea, if we hed gone -forth 
inst them, in the strength of the Lord, we should. have 
dispersed our enemies; for it would have been dene accor- 
ding tothe fulfilling of.his ward. But behold, now the 
Lamanites are coming upon us, and they are murdering 
aur people with the sword; yea, our women and our chib- 
dren; taking possession of our lands, and also carrying 
them away captive; causing them that-they should saffer 
ell, manner of afflictions; and this because of the great 
wickedness of those who are seeking for power and au- 
thority; yea, even those king-men. But why should I say 
much concerning this matter, for we know not but whet ye 
‘yourselves are seeking for authority? We know not but 
whet ye are also traitors to your couatry? Oris it that ye 
Have neglected us because ye ars in the heart of our coum 
try, and ye are surrounded by security, that ye do not gause 
food to be sent unto us, and also men to strengthen our ar 
‘mies? Have ye forgot the commandment of the Lord your 
God? Yea, have. ye forgot the captivity of our fathers? 
Have ye forgot the many times wé have been delivered out 
of the hands of our enemies? Ordo ye suppose that the: 
Lord wilt still deliver: us, while we sit upon our thrones, 
end do not make use of the means which the Lord has pree 
vided for us? Yea, will ye ait in idleness, while ye.sre 
surrounded with thousands of those, yea, and tens of thou- 
sanda, who do also sit in idleness, while there are thousands: 
round about in the borders of the land, who are falling by 
the sword, yea, wounded and bleeding? Do ye suppose 
that God will look upon you as guiltless, while ye sit still 
and behold these things? Behold, I say unto you, nay, 
Now I would that ye should remember that God has ead 
thatthe inward vessel shall be cleansed first, and then skeli 
` the onter vessel be cleansed also. And now except ye do 
repent of that which ye have done, and begin to be up and 
doing, and send forth food and men unto us,‘and also unte 
Helaman, that he may support those perts of our country. 
which he has retained, and that we may also recover the 
remainder of our possessions in these parts, behold, it will 
expedient that we contend no more with the Lamanites 


DOCK OF AAMA: om 


antil we led. first cleansed our inward vessel; yea, oven 
the great heed.of our government; aad except ye grant 
mine epistle, and. come out and skew anto me a true spirit 
of freedom, and strive- to strengthen and fortify our armies, 
snd grant unto them faod for- their support, behold, I wall 
leave a part of my freamén to maintain this part of ou 
land, and I will leave the strength and the blessings of G 
upon.them, that none other power can operate against them, 
and this because ef their exceeding faith and their patience 
in etheir tribulations; and f will come unto you, and if 
there be any among you that has a desire for freedom, yea, 
‘if there be even a spark of fraedom remaining, behold I 
will stir up insurrections among you, even until those who 
have <desites to usurp power and authority, shall become 
_ exdtingt; yea, behold Ido not fear your power nor your aue 
thority, but it is my God whom I fear, and it is accordin 
to his commandments that I do take my sword to defend 
the cause.of my country, and it is because df your iniquity 
that we. have suffered so much losg. Behold itis time; yer, 
the time is now at hand, that except ye do bestir yourselvag 
in the defence of yeur country and your little ones, the 
awoxd of justice doth hang over you: yea, and it shell fall 
upan ha gag visit yqu even to your utter destruction. Be» 
hold, | wait for dssistance from you, and except ye do ade 
minister unto our relief, behold I come unto you even ia 
she land of Zarahemja, end smite you with the sword, ine 
somuch that ye can have no more power to impede the 
oa of this people in the cause of our freedam;, for be» 
—* the Lord wiil net suffer that ye shall live and wax 
stzong ia your iniquitiea, to destroy his righteous people 


Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and - 


come out ig judgment against the Lamanites, when it is 
the tradition of their fathers that hes-caused their hatreds 
yea, and it hag been redoubled by those who have dissent» 


ed from, us, while your iniquity is for the cause of your 


lervqof glory, and the vain things of she world! Ye know 
that ye do transgress the laws of God, and ye do know that 
ye dd trample them uadex your fect. Behold, the Lord 
gaith unto me, if these whom ye have'‘appointed your gove 
ernors, do not repent of their sins and iniquities, ye shall 
go up tò battle against thera, And now behold, I Moroni 
am constrained, according to the egvenant which I have 
made to keep the commandments of my God; therefore I 
would that ye should adhere to the werd of God, and send 
speedily uuto me of your provisions and of your men, and 
algo ta Helaman. And behold if ye will not do this, I come 
wete-you epacdily > fer hehold, God will not suffer that we 


f 


me HOOK OF ALMA. 


should perish with hunger; therefore he will give unto us 
of your food, even if it must be by the sword. Now see 
that ye fulfil the word of God. Behold, lam Moroni, your 
ehiet captain. I seek not for power but to pull it down. 
I seek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my 
God, and the freedom and welfare of my country. And 
thus I close mine epistle. - 


: . >Y 
4 Gomme — 


CHAPTER XXVIII. 


BgHoLp, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni hed 
sent his epistle unto the chief governor, he received an . 
epistle from Pahoran, the chief givernor. And these are 

e' words which he received: IÍ, Pahoran, who am the 
chief governor ôf this land, do send these words unto Moro- 
ni, the chief captain over the army: behold I say-unto you, 
Moroni, that Ido not joy in your great afilietions; yea, it 

ieves my soul, But behold, there are those who do joy 
in your afflictions; yea, insomuch that they have risen up 
in rebellion against: me, and also .those of my people 
who are freemen; yea, and those who have risen up, are 
exceeding numerous. And it is those who have sought 
to take away the judgment seat from me, that have been 
the cause of this great iniquity; for they have used great 
flattery; and they have led away the hearts of mny peo- 
ple, which will be the cause of sore affliction among us; 
they have withheld our provisions, arid have daunted our 
freemen, that they have nat come unto you. And behold, 
they have driven me out before them, and I have fled te 
the land of Gideon, with as many men as it were possible 
that I could get. And behold, I have eent a proclamation 
throughout this part of the land; and behold, they are flock- 
ing to us daily, to their arms, in the defenes of their ceum- 
try, ahd their freedom, and to avenge our wrongs. And 
they have come unte us, insomuch that those who ‘have 
yisen up in rebellion ageinet us, are set at defiance; yea, 
insomuch that they do fear us, and durst not come out 
against us to battle. They have got possession of the land, 
or the city Zarahemla: they have appointed'a king over 
them, and he hath written unto the king of the Lamanites, 
in the which he hath joined an alliance with him; in the 
which alliance, he hath agreed to maintain thecity of Za 
rahemla, which maintenance he supposeth will enable the 

anites to conquer the remainder of the land, and he 


BORR:OF ALWde: . 20a 


shall be placed king ovex this poopià, when they shall be 
conquered under the Lamanites, And now, in your epistle 
you have censured me; but it mattereth not, I am not an- 
, but-da rejoice in the greatness of your heart. I, Pas 
Boado not seek for power, save only to retain my judge 
ment seat, that ‘may preserve the rights and the liberty 
of my ‘people. My soul standeth fast in that &berty, in the 
which God hath made-us free.: 
: And. now behold we will resist wickedness even unta 
bloodshed. We would not shed the blood of the Lamans 
ites, if they would stay in their own land. We would not 
shed the blood of our brethren, if they would nof rise up 
in rebelbion and take the sword against us. We weuld sub- 
ject ourselves to the yoke of bondage, if it were requisite. 
With. the justice of God, or if he should command us so ta 
do. But behold he doth not command us that we shall sub» 
ject ourselves to our enemies, but that we should put ous 
wust in him, and he will deliver us. Therefore my belov- 
ed brother Moroni, let-us resist evil; and whatsoever evil 
we cannot resist: with our words, yea, such as rebellions 
and dissensions, let -us.resist them with our swords, that 
we may retain ouf freedom, that we may rejoice in the 
eat privilege of our church and in the cause of our Re» 
desmai and our God. Therefore come unto me speedily, 
with a few of, your men, and leave the remainder. in the 
charge of Lehi and Teancum; give unto them power to 
conduct the war in that part of the land, according to the 
spirit of God, which is aleo the spirit of freedom which is 
in phem. ' Behold I have sent a few provisions umto themy 
thet they may not perish until ye can come unto mea 
Ghther together whatsoewer force ye can upon your march: 
hither, and we'will go speedily against those dissenters, in 
the strength of our God, according to the faith whieh isin us. 
And we will take possession of the city of Zarahemla, that 
we:may obtain more food to send forth unto Lehi and Tean- 
oum; yea, we will go forth against them in the strength. 
of the Lord, end we will put.an end to. this great iniquity. 
. And now, Moroni, I do joy in receiving your epistle; 
I was somewhat Worried concerning what we shotild doy 
whether it should be just in us to go against our brethren. 
But ye have said, except they. repent, the Lord hath coms 
maaded you.that ye should go against them. Seo that ya 
strengthén Lehi and Teancum in the Lord; tell them to fear 
net, for God will delivery them; yen, and dizoall thoge who 
stand-fest in that liberty wherewith God hath made them 
ftue. And now E eloso mine epistle to my beloved brother: 
Moroni. . Er , a — — 


ms ROOK OF ALNA, 
CHAPTER XKIX.: 


- AND now it came to pass-that when Moroni had recsivs 
ed this epistle, his heart did take courage, and was filled 
with exceeding great joy, because of the faithfulness of 
Pahoran, that Fe was not also a traitor to the freedom ané 
cause of his cotintry. -But he did also mourn qxceedingly, 
because of the iniquity of those who had driven Pahoran 
from the judgment seat; yea, in fine, because of those whe 
had rebelled against their country and also their God. 

And it came to pass that Mosoni took a small number of 

mien according to the desire of Pahoran, and geve Lehi and 
Teancum command over the remainder of his army, end 
took his march towards the land of Gideon. And he did 
raise the standard of liberty in whatsoever place he did an- 
ter, and gained whatsoever force he could in all his march 
towards the land of Gideon. ; 
. And it came to paes that thoasands did flock unto his 
standard, and did take up their swords in the defence of their 
freedom, that they might not come into bondage. And 
thus when Moroni had gathered togethtr whatsoever men 
he could in all his march, he ceme ta the land of Gideon; 
and uniting his forces with that of Pahoran, they became 
exceeding strong, even stronger than the men of Pachus, 
who was the king of those dissenters who had driven ow 
the freemen out of the land of . Zarahemla, and had taken 
possession of the land. 

And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran went down 
with their armies into the land of Zarahemle, and went 
forth against the city, and did meet the men of Pachas, 
insomuch that they did come te battle. And behold, 
Pachus was slain, and his men were taken prisoners; and 
Pahoran was restored.to his judgment seat. And the men 
of Pachus received their trial, according to the law, and aly 
go those king-men who had been taken and cast iato prison; 
and they were executed according to the law; yea, those 
men of Pachus, and those king-men, whosoever would not 
take up arms in the defence of their country, but would 
fight against it, were put to death. And thua it became 
— that this law should be strictly observed, for the 
safety of their country; yea, end whoseever wae found de 
nying their freedom, was speedily executed according to 
the law. And thus ended the thirtieth year of the reign 
ef the judges over the people of Nephi: ‘Moroni ‘and Pe- 
horan having restored peace to the lend of Zarahemls, 
among theiz own people, having jnflicted death upon all 
those who were not trus to the cause of freedom. . 


BOOK OF. ALMA. 203 


And it came to pass in the éommencement of the thirt 
and first year of the reign of the judges over the people of 
Nephi, Moroni immediately caused that provisions should 
be sent, and also an army of six thousand men, should be 
sent unto Helaman, to assist him in preserving that part of 
the land; and he also caused that an army of six thousand 
men, with a sufficient quantity of food, should be sent to 
the armies of Lehi aid Teancum. And it came to pase 
that this waa done, to fortify the land against the Lamanites. 

And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran, leaving a 
arte body.of men in the land of Zarahemla, took their march 
With a large body of men towards the land of Nephihah, 
being determined to overthrow the Lamanites in that aye 

‘And it came to pags that as they were marching towar 
the land, they an a large body of men of the Lamanites, 
and slew many of thém, and took ¢heir provisions, and 
their weapons of war. And it came to pass after they had 
taken them, they caused them to enter into a covenant, 
that they would no more take up their weapons of wat 
apainet the Nephites. And when they had entered into 
this covenant, they sent them te dwell with the people of 
Ammon; and they were in number about four thousand, 
who had not been slain. 

And it came to pass that when they had sent them away, 
they pursued their march towards the land of Nephihah. 
And it came to pass that when they had come to the city 
Nephihah, they did pitch their tents in the plains of Ne- 
phihah, which is near the city Nephihah. Now Moroni 
was desirous that the Lamanites should come out to bate 
tle against them, upon the plains; but the Lamanites know- 
ing of their exceeding great courage, and beholding the 
greatness of their numbers, thorefore they durst not come 
out against thom; therefore they did not come to battle im 
that ay. And whet the. night came, Moroni went forth 
in the darkness of the night, and came upon the top of the 
‘wall to spy out in what part of the city the Lamanitee did 
camp with their army. 

And it came to pass that they were on the east, by the 
entrance; and they were all asleep. And now Moroni rea 
turned to his àrmy, and caused that they should prepare in 
haste strong cords and ladders, to be let down from the 
top of the wall into the inner part of the wall. 

* And it came to pasé that Moroni caused that his men. 
should.march forth and come upon the top of the wall, 
and let themselvés down into that part of the city, yea, 
even on the west, where the Lamanites did not camp with 
their armies.. 


* 


aae BOP OX, ALM Ap 


And it came to-pass that, they were all let down into 
the city by night, by the means of their strong cords and 
their ladders; thus when the morning came, they were all 
within the walls of the city. And now when the Laman- 
ites awoke, and saw that the armies of Moroni were within 
the walls, they were affrighted exceedingly, insomuch 
that they did flee out by the pass, And now when Moroni 
saw that they were fleeing before him, he did cause that 
his men should march forth against them, and slew many, 
und surrounded many others and took them ‘prisoners; 
and the remainder of them fled into the land of Moroni 
which was in the borders by the seashore. Thug had 
Moroni and Pahoran obtained, the possession of the city 
ef Nephihah, without the loss of one soul; and there were 
many of the Lamanites who were slain. 

Now it came to pags that many of the Lamanites that 
Were prisoners, were desirous to join the people of Ammon, 
and become a free people. And it came. to pass that ag 
many. as weré desirous, unto them it was granted, accor- 
ding to their desires; therefore all the prisoners of the 
Lamanites did join the people of Ammon, and did begin 
to labor exceedingly, tilling the ground, raring all man 
ner of grain, and Rocks, and. herds of every kind; and thus 
were the Nephites relieved from a great burthen; yea, in- 
somuch that they were relieved from all the prisoners of, 
the Lamanites. nay. 7 

Now it came to pass that Moroni, after he had obtained 
possession of the city of Nephihah, having taken many 
prisoners, which did reduce the armies of Fhe Lamaniteg 
exceedingly, and having retained many of the Nephites 
who had been taken prisoners, which did strengthen the 
army of Moroni exceedingly; therefore Moroni went forth 
from the.land of-Nephihah to the land of Lehi. . ) 

And it came to pass that when thg Lamanites saw thaf 
Moroni was coming against them, they were again fright. 
ened, and fled before the army of Moroni. And it camg 
to pass that Moroni and his army did pursue, them from 
city to city, until they were met by Lehi and Teancum; 
and the Lamanites fled from Lehi and Teancum, even 
down upon the borders by the seashore, patil they came 
tọ the land of Moroni. And the armies of the Lamanites 
were all gathered together, insomuch that they were all 
an one body, in the land of Moroni. Now Ammoroh, the 
King of the Lamaaites, was also with them, 

And it came to pass that Moroni, and Lehi, end Tean-. 
tum, did encamp with their armies round about in the 
borders of the land of Moroni, insomuch that,the 

7 ARB Agel 








Te ee ee ee ee ape ree * 


BOOK OF ALNA. $93 


ites were encircled about in the bordere by the wilderness, 
on the south, and .in the borders by the wilderness, 
on the east; and thus they did encamp for the night. For 
behold, the Nephites and the Lamanites also, were wea 
because of the greatness of the marth; therefore they aid 
not resolve upon any stratagem in the night time, save it 
were Feancum: for he Was exceeding angry with Ammo- 
ron, insomuch that he considered that Ammoron, and Am- 
alickiah his brother, had’ been the cause of this great and 
lasting war between themeand the Lamanites, which had 
been the cause of'so much war and bloodshed, yea, and so 
much famine. nT i ' 

And it came to pass that Teancum in his anger did go 
forth into the camp of the Lamanites, and did let himself 
down over the walls of the city. And he went forth with 
a cord, from place to plate, insomuch that he did find the 
king; and he did cast a javeline at him, which did pieree 
him neartht heart. ‘But behold, the king did awake his 
servant before he died, insomuch that he did pursue Tean- 
cum, and slew him. ° ` 
' Now it came to pass that when Lehi and Moroni knew 
that Teancum was dead, they were exceeding sortowful: 
for beh@ld, he had been a man who had fought valiantly 
far his country, yea, a true friend to liberty; and he had 
suffered véry many exceeding sore afflictions. ` But bee 
hold, he was dead, and had gone the way of all the earth. 

Now it came to pass that Moroni marched forth on the 
morrow, and came upon the Lamanites, insonruch that 
they did slay them with a great slaughter; and they did 
drive them out of the land; and they did flee, even that 
they did not return at that time against the Nephites. 
And thus ended the’ thirty and first year-of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi; and thus they had 
had wars, and bloodsheds, and famine, and affliction, for 
the space of many years. And there had been murders, 
and contentions, and dissensions, and all manner of in- 
iquity among’ the people of Nephi; nevertheless, for the 
righteous’ sake, yea, because of the prayers of the right- 
eous, they were spared. But behold, because of the ex- 
ceeding great length of the war between the Nephites 
and the Pertanian, many had become hardened, because 
of the exceeding great length of the war; and many were 
softened, because of their afflictions, insomuch that they 
did humble themselves before God, even in the dephth of 
humility. 

Ant it cathe to pass that after Moroni hed fortified those 
parts of the land which were most exposed to the Laman- 


m BOOK OF ADMA» 


ites, until théy were sufficiently strong, he returned t the 
city of Zarahemla, and algo Helaman returned to'the place 
of his inheritance; and there was once more peace estab- 
lished among the people of Nephi. . And Moroni yielded 
pp the commend of hjs armies into the hands of hia son, 
whoge name was Moronihah; and he retired to his own 

ouse that he might spend the remainder of his days in 
peace. And Pahoran did return to his judgment seat; 
and Helaman did take upon him again to._preach unto the 
people the word of God: for because of so many wars and 
contentions, it had become expedient that a regulation 
should be made again in the church; therefore Helaman 
and his brethren went forth, and did declare the word of 
God with much power, unto the convincing of many peos 
ple of their wickedness, which did ‘cause them to repent 
of their sins, and to be baptized anto the Lord their Gad. 

«And it came to pags that they did establish again the 
church of God, throughout all the land; yeagand regula- 
tions‘were made concerning the law. And their judges, 
and their chief judges were chosen. And the people of 
Nephi began to prosper again in, the land, and began to 
multiply and to wax exceeding strong again in the land. 
And they began to grow exceeding rich; but notwith- 
standing their riches, or their strength, or their prdeperity, 
they were not lifted up in the pride of their eyes; neither 
were they slow to remember the Lord their God: but they 
did humble themselves exceedingly before him; yea, they 
did remember how great things the Lord had done for 
them, that he had delivered them from death, and from 
bonds, and from prisons, and from all manner of afflictions; 
and he had delivered them out of the hands of their ene 
mies. And they did pray unto the Lord their God con- 
tinually, insomuch that the Lord did bless them, according 
to his word, so that they did wax strong, and prosper im 
the land. And it came to pass that all these things were 
done. And Helaman died, in the thirty and fifth year of 
the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. 


2+o~ 
CHAPTER XXX. 
Ann it came to pass in the commencement of the thirty 
and sixth‘year of the reign of the judges over the people 


ef Nephi, that Shiblon took possession of those sacred 
things which hed been, delivered unto Helpman by Almas 


woo oF alma. $95 


aed he wavs jue man, and be did walk uprightly tpfore 
Gods and he did obgerve to de good continually, to Ree 
the confmandments of the Lord his God; and alas did hi 
brothor. 

And it caine to pass that Moroni died also. And thus’ 
esded the thirty and sixth year of the reign of the judges. 
And it came to pass that in the‘thirty and seventh year of 
the reign of the judges, there wgs a large company of men, 
even to-the amount of five thousand and four hundred 

-men, with their wives and their children, departed oat of 
the land of Zerahemla, into the land which was nérthward. 

And it came to pasg that Hagoth, he being an exceeding 
curious man, therefore he went forth and built him an ex- 
ceeding large ship, on the borders of the land Bountifel, 
by the land -Desolation, and launched it forth into the 
west sea, by the narrow neck which led into the land north- 
ward. And behold, there were many of the Nephites 
who did enter therein, and did sail forth with much pro- 
visions, and also many women and children; and they took 
their course northward. And thus ended the thirty and 
seventh year. And in the thirty and eighth year, this man 
built.ether ships, And the first ship did also return, and 

many more people did enter into it; and they also took 
much provisions, and set out again to the land northward, 

And it came to pane that they were never heard of more. 
And we suppose that thuy were drowned up in the depths 
of thesea. Andit came to pass that one other ship also 
did sail forth; and whither she did go, we know not. And 
i¢ came to pass that in this year, there were many people 
who went forth into the land northward. And thus ended 
the thirty and eighth year. 

And it came to pass in the thirty and ninth year of the 
reign of the judges, Shiblon died also, and Curianton had 
gone forth to the land northward, in a ship, to carry forth’ 
provisions unto the people who had gone forth into thatland ; 
therefore it became expedient for Shiblon to confer those 
sected things, before his death,.upon the son of Helaman, 
who was called Helaman, being called after the name of | 
his father. Now behold, all those engravings which were 
in the possession of Helaman, were written and sent forth 
among the children of men throughout all the land, save 
it were those parts which had been commanded by Alms 
should not go forth. Nevertheless these things were to 
be kept sacred, and handed down from one generation to 
another; therefore, in this year, they had been conferred 
upon Helaman, before the death of Shiblon. And it camé 
to pads also in this year, that there were some dissen- 


6 BOQK OF ELAM GM. 


ters who had gone forth ugto the Lamanitess and they 
‘were, stirred up again to anger against the Nephites. 
And also in this same year, they camb down with a ny- 
merous army to, war against the people of Moronihah, 
or against the army of Moronihdh, in the which they were 
beaten, and driven back again to their own lands, suffe, 
ing great loss. And thus ended the thirty and ninth year 
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. Aad 
thus ended the account of Alma, and Helaman his gon, 
and also Shiblon, who was his son. . . 


—— —. 
THE BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


CHAPTER I. 


An account of the Nephites. Their wars and conicattons, 
and their dissensions. And also the — of many 
holy prophets, before the coming of Christ, according to 
the record of Helaman, who was the son of Helaman, and 
also according to the records of his sons, even down to the 
coming of Christ. And also many of the Lamanites are 
converted. An account of their conversion. An account 
of the righteousness of the Lamanites, and the wickedness 
and abominations of the Nephites, according to the record of 
Helaman and his sons, even down to the coming of Christ, 
which is called the book of Helaman, &c. . 


Anp now behold, it came to pass in the commencement 
of the fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the 
people of Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty 
among the people of the Nephites. For behold, Pahogan 
had died, and gone the way of all the earth; therefore 
there began to be a serious contention concerning who 
should have the judgment seat among the brethren, who 
were the sonsof Pahoran. Now these are the names whe 
did contend for the judgment seat, who did also cause the 
propie to contend: Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni. 

ow these are not all the sons of Pahoran, (for he had 
many,) but these are they who did contend for the judg- 
ment seat; therefore they did cause three divisions among 
the people. Nevertheless, it came to pass that Pahoran was 
appointed by the voico of the people to be chief judge 
and a governor over the pes le of Nephi. 

And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that 








Se Peele Me ee Ae OK — — — 


BOOK OF. HRLAMAW. ag 


he could not obtain the judgment seat, he did unite with 
thé voice of the people. But behold, Paenchi and that 

art of the people that were desirous that he should be 
their governor, was exceeding wroth; therefore he was 
about'to’ flatter away those people to rise up in rebellion 
against their brethren. i J 

And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, 

he‘ was taken, and was tried according to the veice of the 

eople, and condemned unto death; for he had raised up 
in rebellion, and sought to destroy the liberty of the peo- 
ple. Now when those people who were desirous that he — 
should be their governor, saw that he was condemned unto 
death, therefore they were angry; and behold they sent 
forth one Kishkumen, even to the Judgment seat of Pa» 
horan, and murdered Pahoran as he sat upon the judgment 
seat. And he was pursued hy the servants of ‘Pahoren; 
but behold, so spee y was the flight of Kishkumen, that 
no man could overtake him. And he went unto those that 
sent him,.and they all entered into a covenant, yea, swear- 
ing by theit everlasting: Maker, that they would tell no 
man that Kishkumen-had murdered Pahoran; therefore 
Kishkumen was not known among the people of Nephi, 
for he was in disguise at the time that he murdered Paho | 
ran. And Kishkumen, and his band who had covenanted 
with him, did. mingle themselves among the people, in a 
manner that they all could not’ be found ; but as many as 
were found, were condemned unto death. And now be 
hold, Pacumeni was appointed, according to the voice of 
the people, to be a chief judge and a governor over the 

eople, to reign in the etead of his brother Pahoran; and 
it was according to his right. And all this was done, iz 
the fortieth year of the reign of the judges; and it had 
an end. 

And it came to pass in the forty and first year of the 
reign of the judges, that the Lamanites had gathered to 
gether an ifinumerable army of men, and armed them 
with swords, and with cimeters, and with bows, and with 
atrows,and with apara and with breast-plates, and ' 
with all manner of shields of every kind; and they came 
down again, that they might pitch battle against the Ne 
phites. And they were led by a man whose name was 
Coriantumr; and he was a descendant of Zarahemla; and 
he was a dissenter from among the Nephites; and he waa 
a large and a mighty man; therefore the king of the La- 
manites, whose name was Tubaloth, who. was the son of 
Ammoron, supposing that aoe being a mighty 


396 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


man, could stand against the Nephites, insomuch with bis 
strength and, also with his great wisdom, that by send- 
ing him forth, he should gain power over the Nephites; 
therefore he did stir them up to anger, and he did gather 
together his armies, dnd he did appoint Coriantumr to be 
their leader, and did cause that they should march down to 
the land of Zarahemla, to battle against the Nephites. | . 
And it came to pass that because of so much contention 
and so much difficulty in the government, that they had 
not kept sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for 
_ they had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into 
the heart of their lands to attack that great city Zarahemla. 
But it came to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the 
-head of his numerous host, and came'upon the inhabitants 
of the city, and their march was with such exceeding 
great speed, that there was no time for the Nephites to 
ather together their armies; therefore Coriantumr did cut 
own thé watch by the entrance of the city, and did march 
forth with his whole army into the city, and they did slay 
every one who.did oppose them, insomuch that they did 
take ession of the whole city.’ And it came to pass 
that Pacumeni, who was the chief Judge, did flee before 
Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city. And it ‘came 
to pass that Coriantmur did smite him against the wall, in- 
somuch that he died. And thus ended the days of Pacu- 
meni. And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in pos- 
session of the city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites 
had fled before them, and were slain, and were taken, and 
were cast into prison, and that he had obtained the posses- 
sion of. the strongest hold in all the land, his heart took 
couragé, insomuch that he was about to go forth against 
all the land. And now he did not tarry in the land of 
Zarahemla, but he did march forth with a large army, even 
towards the city of Bountiful; for jt was his determination 
to go forth and cut his way through with the sword, that 
he might obtain the north pun of the land; and supposing 
that — strength was in the centre of the land, 
* therefore he did march forth, giving them no time to as- 
semble themselves together, save it were in small bodies; 
„and in this: manner they did fall upon them and cut them 
down tothe earth. But bebold, this march of Coriantumr 
through the centre of the land, gave Moronihah great ad- 
‘vantage over them, notwithetanding the greatness of the 
‘number of the Nephites who were slain; for behold, Mo- 
gonihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come 
ito the centre of the land, but that they would attack 
the cities round about in the borders as they had hitherto 


—— — ae 


BOOK OF BRLAMAM, 399 


done; therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong: 
armies should maintain those parts round about by the bor- 
ders. But behold, the Lamanites were not frightened aç- 
cording to his desire, but they had come into the centre of 
the land, and had taken the capital city, which was the 
city of Zarahemla, and were marching through the most 
capital parts of the land, slaying the people with a great 
slaughter, both men, women and children, taking posses- 
sion of many cities and of many strong holds. But when 
Moronibah had discovered this, he immediately sont forth 
Lehi with an army round about to head them, before they 
should come to the land Bountiful. And thus he did; 
and he did head them, before they came to the land Boun- 
tiful, and gave unto them battle insomuch thatthey began 
to retreat back towards the land of Zarahemla. And it 
came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their retreat, 
and did give unto them battle insomuch that it became an 
exceeding bloody battle; yea, many were slain; and 
among the number who were slain, Coriantumr was also 
found. And now behold the Lamanites could not re- 
tréat either way; neither on the north, nor on thé,south, 
nor on the east, nor on the west, for they were surrounded 
on — hand by the Nephites. And thus had Coriantmr 
plunged the Lamanites into the miidgt of the Nephites, in- 
somuch that they were inthe power of the Nephites, and 
he himself was slain, and the Lamanites did yield them- , 
selves into the hands of the Nephites. | 
‘And it came to pass that Moronihah took possesgion of 
the city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Laman- 
ites who had been taken prisoners should depart out of 
the land in peace. And thus ended the forty and first 
year of the reign of the judges. ` ; 
And it came to pass in the forty and second year of the 
reign of the judges, after Moronihab had established again 
— between the Nephites and the Lamanites, behold 
there was ho one to fill the judgment seat; therefore there 
began to be a contention again among the people con- 
cerning who should fill the judgment seat. And it came 
to pass that Helaman, who was the son of Helaman, was 
appointed to fill the judgment seat, by.the voice of the 
people; but behold, Kishkumen, who had murdered Paho- 
ran, did lay wait to destroy Helaman also; and he was up- 
held by his band, who Had entered into a covenant that 
-no ne should know his wickedness; for there was one 
Gadianton who was exceeding expert in many words, and 
also in his craft, to carry on the secret work of murder 
and of rubbery; therefore he beeame the leader of the 


400 DOCE OF HELAMAN. 


bend of Kishkumen; thereforé he did fatter them, and 
siso Kishkumen, that if they would piece him in the 
judgment seut, he would grant unto those who belonged 
to his band’ that they should be placed in ‘power and 
authority among the people; therefore Kishkumen sought 
to destroy Helamen. | — 

And it came to pass as he went forth towards the judg- 
ment seat, to destroy Helaman, hehold one of the servants 
of Helaman, having been out by night, and having ob- 
tained, through disguise, a knowledge of those plans which 
had been laid by this band to destroy Helaman. And 
it came to pass that he met Kishkumen and he gave unto 
him asign; therefore Kishkumen made known unto him 
the object of his desire, desiring that he would conduct 
him to the judgment seat, that he might murder Helaman; 
and’ when the servant of Helaman had known all the 
heart of Kishkumen, and‘how that it was his object to 
murder, and also that it was the object of all those who 
belonged to his band, to murder, and to rob, and to gain 
power, (and this was their secret plan and their. combina- 
tion) the servant of Helaman saith unto Kishkumen, let 
us go forth unto the judgment seat. Now this did please 
Kishkumen exceedingly, for he did suppose that he should 
accomplish his design; but behold, the servant of Hela- 
man, as they were going’ forth unto the judgment seat, 
did stab Kishkuinen, even to the heart that he fell dead 
without e groan, And he ran and told Helaman all the 
things which he had seen, and heard, and done. 

And it came to pass that Helaman did send forth to take 
this band of robbers and secret murderers, that they might 
be exeeuted according to the law.. But behold, when 
Gadianton had found that Kishkumen did not return, he 
feared lest that he should be destroyed; therefore he caused 
that his band should follow him. And they took their 
flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilder- 
ness; and thus when Helaman sent forth to take them, 
they could no where be found. And more of this Gadi- 
anton shall be spoken hereafter. And thus ended the 
forty and second year of the\reign of the judges over the 
people of Nephi. And behold, in the end of this book, ye 
shal! see that this Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, 
almost the entire destruction of the people of Nephi. ` Be- 
hold I do not mean the end of the book of Helaman, but I 
mean thé end of the book of Nephi, from which I have 
taken all the account which I have writton. 


BOOK QF HELAMA®, 401 
CHAPTER II. 


. AwD now it came to pass in the forty and third year of 
the reign of the judges, there was.no contention among 
the people of Nephi, save it were a little pride which was 
in the church, which: did, cause some little dissensions 
among the people, which aflairs were settled in the ending, 
of the forty and third year. And there was no contention 
among the people in the forty and fourth year; neither was 
there much contention in the forty and fifth year. And 
it camie to pass.in the forty and'sixth, yea, there were much 
contentions and many dissensions;.jn the which there 
were an exeeeding great many who departed out of the 
land qf Zarahemla, and went forth unto the land northward, 
tə inherit the land; and they did travel to.an exceeding 
great distance, insomuch that they came to large bodies 
of water, and many rivers; yea, and even they did spread 
forth into all parta of the land, into whatever parts it had 
not been rendered desolate, and without timber, because 
of the many inhabitants who had before inherited the land. 
And now no part of the land was desolate, save it: were 
for timber, &c.; but because of the greatness of the de- 
struction of the people who had before inhabited the land, 
it was called desolate. And there being but little timber 
upon the face of the lard, nevertheless. the people who 
went forth became exceeding expert in the working of. 
eement; therefore they did build houses of cement, in the. 
which they did dwell. — 

And it cathe to pass that they did multiply and spread, 
and did'go forth from the land southward to the land 
northward, and did spread insomuch that they began to 
eover the face of the whole earth, from the sea south, to 
the sca north, from the sea west, to- the sea east, And the 
people who were in the land northward, did dwell in tents, 
and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever 
tree should. spring up upon the face of the land, that it 
should grow up, that in time they might have timber to 
build their houses, yea, theit cities and their temples, and 
their synagogues, and, thei sanctuaries, and all manner of. 
their buildings. | a ied 

: And it came to pasa as timber was exceeding scarce in 
the land northward, they did send forth much by the way 
of shipping;.and thus they did ‘enable the people in the 
land northward, that they might build many cities, both 
of wood aad of cement. . And it came to pass that there 


, 


gp BOX of WELABAM 


were many of the people of Ammon who were Lamanites. 
by birth, did also go forth into this land. NEBE 

‘And now there are many records kept of the proceed- 
ings of this people, by many of this people; which are pat- 
ticular and very large, concerning them; but behold a 
hundredth part ef the proceedings of this people, yea, the 
dcecount of the Lamanites, and of tke Nephites, and their. 
wars, and contentions, and dissensieng, and their preach- 
ipg; and their prophecies, and their shipping, and their 
building of ships, and their building of temples, and of 
synagogies, and their sanctuaries, and their righteousness, 
and their wickedness, and their murders, and their rob- 
bings, and their plundering, end all manner of abomina- 
tions and whoredoms, cannot ‘be contained ‘in thie work; 
but behold, there dre many.books and many’ reeoerds of 
every kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Ne- 
phites; and they have béen handed down frem one geno- 
ation to another, by the Nephites, even until they have 
fallen into transgression, and have been murdered, plum- 
dered and hunted, and driven forth, and slain, and scat- 
tered ‘upon ‘the faee of the earth, and mixed with the 
Lamanites until they are no more called the Nephites, . 
becoming wicked, and Wild, and ferocious, yea, even 
becoming Lamanites: so 

_ And now IL 'return again to mine account; therefore 
what I have spoken had passed after there bad-been great 
contentions, and disturbances, and wars, and dissensions 
among the people of Nephi. The forty and gixth year of 
the retgn of the judges ended. And it came fo pass that 
there was still great contentions in the land, yea, even in 
the'forty and seventh year, and ‘also in the forty and eighth 
year; nevertheless, Helaman did fill the judgment seat 
with justice and equity; yea, he did observe to keep the 
statutes, and the judgments, and the commandments of 
God; and he did do that which was right in the stght ef 
Gqd contintally; and he did walk after the ways of his 
fater. insomuch that he did prosper inthe hand. And it 
came to pass that he had two sons. He gave unto the 
eldest the name of Nephi, and unto the youngest the name 
of Lehi. And they began to grow ‘up unto the Lord. - 
And it came to pass that the.wars and contentions began 
to cease, in a small degree, among the peeple of the Ne- 
phites, in the latter end of the forty and eighth yéar of the 
reign of the judges ovet the people of Wophi.” And it 
came to pass ia the forty ond ninth year-of the reign of 
the judges, there was continual peace established in the 
land, all save it were the secret combinations which Gad- 








BOOK OF HELAMAM 3. 
janton the robber had established, in the more settled 
rts of the land, which at that time were net knowr unto: 
hose who were at the head ef government; therefore they 
were not destroyed out of the land. 
And it tame to pass that in this same year, there was’ex- 
ceeding great prosperity inthe church, insomuch that there 
were thousands who did jain themselves unto the church, 
and were bapiisee unto repentance; and so great was the 
prosperity of the church, and so many the blessings which 
were poured out upon the people, that even the high priesta 
and the teachers were themselves astonished beyond mea- 
sure. And it came to pees that the work of the Lord did 
rospér unto the baptizing and. uniting to the church of 
od, many souls; yea, even tens of thousands. Thus we 
may see that the Lord is merciful unto at) who will in the 
sincerity of their hearts, call upon his holy name; yea, thus 
we see that the — of heaven is open unto all, even to 
those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who is 
the Son of God; yea, we see thåt whosoever will lay hold 
upon the word of God which is quick and powerful, which 
shall divide asunder all the cunning, and the snares, and 
the wiles of the devil, and lead the man of Christ ia a 
straight and narrow course across that everlasting gulf of 
misery which is prepared to engulf the wicked, and land 
their souls, yea, their immortal souls, at the right hand of 
God, in the kingdom of heavén, to sit down with Abraham, 
end Isaac, and. with Jacob, and with all our holy father 
to go no more out. And in this year there was continu 
rejoicing in the [and of Zarahemla, and in all the regions 
round about, even in all the land which was possessed by 
the Nephites. And it came to pass that there was peace 
and exceeding great joy in the remainder of the forty and 
ninth year; yea, and also there was continual peace and 
eat joy in the fiftieth year of the reign of the judges. And 
n the fifty and first year of the reign of the judges, there 
` Was peace alsp, save it were the pride which began to en- 
ter into the church; not into the church of God, but inte 
the hearts of the people who professed to belong to the 
church of God; and they were Ufted up in pride, even to. 
the persecation of many of their brethren. Now this was 
a great evil, which did cause the more humble part of the 
eople to suffer great persecutions, and: to wade through 
uch afflictions; nevertheless, they-did fast and pray oft, 
‘and did wax stronger and stronger in their. humility, and 
firmer- and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling 
their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the puri- 
fying and the sanctification oftheis hearts, which sanctifi- 


404 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


cation cometh because, of their yielding their hearts unto 
God.’ And it eame to paas that the fifty and second year 
énded in peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride 
which had gotten into the hearts of thé people; and it was 
because of their exceeding great riches, and their prosperity 
in the land; and it did grow upon them from day to day. 

And it came to pass in the fifty and third year of the 
reign of the judges, Helaman died, and his eldest son 
Nephi began to reign in his stead., And it came ta pass 
that he did fill the judgment seat with justice and equity; 
yea, he did keep the commandinents of God, and did walk 
in the ways of his father. And it came to pass in the fifty 
and fourth year, there were many dissensions in the church, 
and there was also a contention among the people, inso- 
much that there was much bloodshed; and the rebellious 
part were slain and driven out of the land, and they.did 
go unto the king of the Lamanijes. -' 

And it came to pass that they did endeavor to stir up the 
Lamanites to war against the Nephites; but behold, the 
Lamanites were exceeding fraid, insomuch that they would 
not hearken to the words of those dissenters. But it came 
to pass in the fifty and sixth year of the reign of the judges, 
there were dissenters who went up from the Nephites unto 
the Lamanites; and they succeeded with those others:in 
stirring them up to anger against the Nephites; and a 
were all that year preparing for war. And in the fifty an 
seventh year, they did come down against the Nephites to 
battle; and they did commence the work of death; yea, 
insomuch that in the fifty and eighth year of the reign of 
the. judges, they succeeded in obtaining possession of the 
land of Zarahemla: yea, and also all the lands, even unto 
the land which was neat the land Bountiful; and the Ne- 
phites, and the armies of Morunihah, were driven even into 
the land of Bountiful; and there they did fortify against 
the Lamanites, from the west sea, even unto the east; it 
being a day’s journey for a Nephite, on the line which the 
had fortified and stationed their armies to defend their none 
country. And thus those dissentere of the Nephites, with 
the help of a numerous army of the Lamanites, had obtain- 
ed all the possession of the Nephites which was in the land 
southward. And all this was done in the fifty and eighth 
and ninth years of the reign of the judges. * 

And it came to pene in the sixtieth year of the reign of 
the judges, Moronihah did succeed with his armies, in ob- 
taining many parts of the land; yea, they retained many 
eities which had fallén into the hands of the Lamanites. 

And it came to pase in the sixty and first year of the reign 


BOOK OF HELAMAM 40d 


of the judges, they succeeded in — even the half 
of all their possessions. Now this great loss of the Ne- 


phites, and the — slaughter which was among them, 


would not have appened, had it not been for their wiek- 
edness and their abomination which was amongthem; yea, 
and it was among those also who professed to belong to the 
ehurch of God: and it was because of the pride of their 
hearts, because of their exceeding. — ea, it was be- 
eausé of their oppression to the poor, withholding their food. 
from the hungry, withholding their clothing from the nu- 
ked, and smiting their humble brethren upon the cheek, 
making a mock of that which was sacred, denying the spirit 
of prophecy and of revelation, murdering, plundering; ly- 
ing, stealing, committing adultery, rising up in great con- 
tentions,.and deserting away into the land.of Nephi, among 
the’Lamanites; and because of this their great wickedness, 
and their boastings in their own strength, they were left 
in.their own strength; therefore they did not prosper, but 
were afflicted and'smitten, and driven befdre the Laman- 
ites, until they. had lost possession of almost all their lands, 
But behold, Moronihah did preach many things unto the 
people, because of their iniquity, and also Nephi and Lehi, 
who were the sòns of Helaman, did preach many things 
unto the people; yea, and did prophesy many things unto 
them concerniag theis iniquities, and what should come. 
unto them if they did not repent of their sins. And it came 
to pass that they did repent, and inasmuch as they did re- 
pent, they did begin, to prosper; for when Moroniksh saw 
that they did repent, he did venture to lead them forth from 
place.to place, and from city to city, even until they had 
retained the one half of their property, and the one half of 
all their lands. And thys ended the sixty and first year of 
the reign of the judges. ro W 
And it came to pass in the sixty and second year of the 
réign of the judges, that Moronihah eould obtain no more 
possessions over the Lamanites; therefore they did abandon 
their design to obtain the remainder of their lands, for so 
numerous were the Lamanites that it became impossible 
for the Nephites to obtain more power over them; there- 
fore Moronihoh did employ all his armies in maintaining 
those parts which he had taken. a ag 

And it came to pass because of the greatness of the num- 
ber of the Lamanites, the Nephites were in great fear, lest 
they should be overpowered, and trodden down, and slain, 
and destroyed; yea, they begam to remember the prophe- 
cies of Alma, and also the words of Mosiah; and they saw 
that thoy had been a.stiffnecked people, and that they had 


, 


7 


46 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


set at nonght 7 commandments of God; and that they 
had altered and trampled under their feet the laws qf Mo- 
siah, or that which rhe Lord commanded him to give unto 
the people; and thus seeing that their laws had become 
corrupted, and that they had become a wicked people, in- 
somuch that they were wicked even like unto the Lamas- 
ites. ` And because of their iniquity, the church had began 
to dwindle; and they began ta disbelieve in the spirit of 
prophecy, and in the spirit of revelation; and the judg- 
ments of God did stare them in the face. And they saw 
that they had become weak, like unto their brethren, the 
Lamanites, and that the spirit of the Lord did no more pre- 
serve them; yea, it had withdrawn from thém, because the | 
apirit of the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples; there- 
fore the Lord did cease to preserve them by his miraculous 
and matchless power, for they had fallen into a state ‘of 
unbelief-and awful wickedness; and they saw that the La- 
manites were more exceeding numerous than they, and 
except they should eleave unto the Lord their God, they 
must unavoidably perish. For beheld, they saw that the 
strength of the Lamanites was as great as their strength, 
even man for man. And thus had they fallen into this great 
transgression; yea, thus had. they becomé weak, because 
of their transgression, in the space of not many years. 
. And it came to pas that in this'same year, behold, Ne- 
phi delivered up the judgment seat, tv a man whose name 
was Cezoram. For as their laws and their governments 
were established by the voice of the people, and they who 
chose evil were more numerous than they who chose good, 
therefore they were ripening for destruction, for the laws 
had become corrupted; yea, and this was not all;.they 
were astifinecked people, insomuch that they could not be 
overned by the law hor justice, save it. were to their 
eatruction. l ' l 
And it came to pass that Nephi had become weary, be- 
cause of their iniquity; and he yielded up the judgment 
seat, and took it upon him to preach the word of God ‘all 
the remainder of his days, and his brother Lehi also, all-the 
remainder of his days; for they remembered the words 
which their father Helaman spake unto them. And these 
are the words which he spake: behdid, my sons, I desire 
that ye should remember to keep the commandments of 
God; and I would that ye should declare unto the people 
these words; behold, I have given unto you the names of 
our first parents, who came out of the land of Jerusalem; 
and this I have done, that when you remember your hames, 
that ye may remember them; and when ye may remember 








BOOK OF HELAMAN. ai 


“them, ye may remember their works; and when ye remem- 
ber their works, ye may know how that it is said, and also 
written, that they were good: therefore my sons, I wauld 
that ye should do that which is good, that it may be said of 
you, and also written, even as it has been said and written of 
them. And now my sons, behold, I have somewhat more 
to desire of you, which desire is, that ye may not do these 
things that ye may boast, but that ye may do these thin 
to lay up for yourselves a treasure in heaven, yea, which is 
eternal, and which fadeth not away; yea, that ye may have 
that precious gift of eternal life, which we have reason to 
suppose hath been given to our fathers. 

O remember, remember, my sona,-the words. which king 
Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember that there 
is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, 
only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, whe shall 
come; yea, remember that he cometh to redeem the world. 
‘And remember also, the words which Amulek spake unto 
Zeezrom, in the city of Ammonihah, for he said unto him, 
that the Lord surely should come to redeem his people: but 
that he should not come to redeem them in their sins, but to 
redeem them from their sins, And he hath power given 
unto him from the Father, to redeem them’ from their sine, 
because of repentance; therefore he hath sent his angels to 
declare the tidings of the conditions of repentance, which 
bringeth unto the power of the Redeemer, unto the salva- 
tion of their souls. And now my sons, remember, remem- 
ber that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, 
the Sowof God, that ye must build yaur foundation, that 
when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds; yea, his 
shafts in the whitlwind; yea, when all his hail and his 
mighty storm shal] beat upon you, it shall have no power 
over you, to drag you downto the gulf of misery and endless 
wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is 
a sute foundation, a foundation whereon if men build, they 
eannot fall. 

And it came to pass that these were the words which 
Helaman taught to his sons; yea, he did teach them — 
things which are not written, and also many things whic 
are written. And they did remember his words; and there- 
fore they went forth, keeping the commandments of God, 
to teach the word of God among all the people of Nephi, 
beginning at the city Bountiful; and from thence forth 
to the city of Gid; and from the city of Gid to the city of 
Mulek; and even from one city-to another, until they had 
gone forth among all the people of Nephi, who were in the 


AS .BOOK OF. KELAMAE- 


-land southward; and from thence into the jand af, Zam 

hemla, among the Lamanites. , : 

_ And it eame to that they did preach with great 

power, insomuch that they did confound many of thosp 
dissenters who had.gone over from the Nephites, insomuch. 
that they.came forth and did confees their sina, and were 
baptized upto repentance, and immediately returned to 
the Nephites, to endeavor to repair unto them the wrongs 
which they, had done. And it came to pass that Nephi 
and Lehi did prea¢h unto the Lamanites with such great 
power and authority, for they had — and authority 
given unto them that they might speak; and they also had 
what they should speak, given unto them; therefore they 
did speak unto the great astoniehment of the Lamanitea, 
to the convinci em, insomuch that there were eight 
thousand of the Lamanites who were in. the land of Za- 
Tahemia ‘and round about, baptized unto repentance, and. 
p convinced of the wickedness of the traditions of their 

athers, : . i 

Ahd it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preceed 
from thence to go to the land of Nephi. And it came to. 
pass that they were taken by an army of the Lamazites, 
and cast into prison; yea, even in that same prison in 
which Ammon and his brethren were cast by the servant 
of Limhi. And after they had been cast into prison many 
days without food, behold, they, went forth into the prison 
to take them, that they might slay them. And it came 
to pasa that Nephi and Lehi were encircled about as if by 
fire, even insomuch that they durst not lay their hands 
upon them, for fear, lest they should be burned. Never- 
theless, Nephi and. Lehi were not burned; and they were 
as standing in the midst of fire, and were not burned. And 
when they saw that they were encircled about with a 
pillar of fire, and that it burned them not, their hearts did 
take courage. For they saw that the Lamanites durst not 
lay their hands upon them; neither durst they come neat 
unto them, but stood as if they were struck dumb with 
amazement. 

And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did stand forth, 
and began to speak unto them, saying, fear not for bebold, 
it is God that has shewn unto you, this marvellous thing, 
in the which is shewn unto you, that ye cannot lay your 
hands on us to slay us. And behold, when they had said 
these words, the earth shook exceedingly, and the walls of 
the prison did shake, as if they were about to tumble to 
the earth; but behold, they did not fall. And behold, 
they that were in the prison, were Lamanites, and Ne- 


BOOR: OF HELLMAN. ap 


phites. who wert-dissettiers, . And it:cante to pass that they 
were'overshadowed with a cloud of darkness, and an aw- 
ful, solemn fear came upon them. And’ it came to pass 
‘that there came a voice, as if it were abeve,the cloud af 
darkness, saying, repent ye, repent ye, and seek no more 
to destroy my servants whom I have sent unto you to de 
‘Clare.good tidin ; = 
Aad it came to pass when they heard this yaiee, and be» 
held that it was not a voice of thunder; neither was it a 
voice of a great tumultuous neise, but behold, it was a- 
still voice, of perfect mildness, as if ìt- had been a whie- 
per, and it did pierce’even tothe very soul. And notwith- 
standing the -mildness of the voice, behold, the earth shook 
exceedingly, and the walls of the prison trembled again, 
asif it were about to tumble tothe earth; and behold, the 
cloud of darkness which had overshadowed them,- did not 
disperse. : And behold, the voice came again, saying, re- 
pent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of. heaven is at hand; 
and seek no mere to destroy my servants. And it came 
to pass that the earth shook again, andgthe walls trom- 
bled; and also again the third time the Voice came, and’ 
did speak unto them mervellous.words, which cannot be 
uttered by man; and the walls did tremble again, and the 
earth shook as if it werd about to divide assunder. - . 
And it came to pass that the Lamanites could not flee, 
bees use of the cloud of darkness which did overshadow 
them; pn and also they were immovable, because of the 
fear which did come upon them. Now there was one 
among them who, was a Nephite by birth, who-had once 
‘belonged to the church of God, but had dissented from 
them. And it came to pass that he turned him about, and 
behold, he saw throaugh-the cloud of darkness the faces of 
Nephi and Lehi; and behold, they did shine exceedingly, 
even as the faced of angels. And be beheld that the 
did lift. up their eyes to heaven; and they were in the attir 
tude as if — or lifting their voioes to some being 
whom they beheld. aS 
And it came to-pase that this man did cry unto the mul- 
titude, that they might turn and look. And behold, there 
vas power given unto them. that they did turn and 
look; and they did behold the faces of Nephi and Lehi. 
-And they said unto the man,.behold, what do all these 
things mean? snd who is it with whom these men do con- 
verse? Now the man’s name was Aminedab. And 
Aminadab said unto them, they do converse with the 
‘angels.of God. And it ee to pass that the Lamanites 


. 


410 BOOK Of. HEL AM A. 


said unto him, what. shall’ we do, that this tloud of dark- 
mess may be removed from dvershadowing us? And Amin- 
adab said unto them, you must repent, and cry unto the 
_ “voice, 6ven until: yé shall have faith: in Christ, who was 
taught unto you by Alma, and Amulek, and: Zeezrom; 
‘and when ye shall be removed from overshadowing you. 
‘And it came to pass that they all did. begin to cry unto 
the vaice of him who ‘had shook the earth; yea, they did 
cry even until the cloud of darkness was dispersed.” And 
it came to pass that when they cast their eyes about, and 
saw that the clowd of darkness was disperset from over- 
shadowing them, and behold, they saw that they were en- 
circled about, yea, every soul, by a'pillar of fire. And 
Nephi and Lehi were in the midst of them; yea, they were 
encircled about; yea, they were as in the midst of a 
flaming fire, yet it did harm them not, neither did it take 
hold upon the walls of the prison; and they were filled 
with that joy which is unspeakable and full of glory. And 
behold the Holy Spirit of God did come down from heaven, 
and did enter into their hearts, and they: were filled as if 
with fire; and they could speak forth marvelous words. ° 

And it came to pass that there came a voice unto them, 

yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying, 

eace, peace be unto you, because of your faith in my we 

eloved, who was from the,foundation of the world. And 
now when they heard this, they cast up their eyes asif 
to behold from whence the voice came; and behold, they 
saw the heavens open; and angels came down out of 
heaven, and ministered unto them. And there were about 
three hundred souls who saw and heard these things; and 
they were bid to go forth and marvel not, neither should 
they doubt. And it came to pass that they did go forth, 
and did minister unto the people, declaring throughout all 
the regions round about, all the things which they had 
heard and seen, insomuch that the more part of the La- 
manites were convinced of them, because of the greatness 
of the evidences, which they had received; and as many 
as were convinced, did lay down their weapons of war, 
and also their hatred, and the tradition of their fathers. 
And it eame to pasa that they did yield up unto the Ne- 
phites, the lands of their possession. 

And it came to pass that when the sixty and second year 
of the reign of the judges had ended, all these things had 
happened, and the Lamanites had become, the more part 
of them, a righteous people, insomuch that their right- 
eousness did exeeed that of the Nephites, because of their 
firmness, and their steadiness in the faith. For behold, 








Fone, Lo age rey es eee ee Pee er te ee ee = á —* * ZA 


BOOK OF HELAMAN, 4h} 


thete were many of the Nephites who had become harde 


ened, and,impenitent, and grossly wicked, insomuch that ' 


they did reject the word of God, and all the preaching and 
prophesying which did come among.them. Nevertheless, 
the people of the church did have great joy, because of 


a 


the conversion of the Lamanites; yea, because of the. 


church of God, which had been established among them, 
And they did fellowship one with another, and did ‘rejoice 
one with another, and did have great joy. And itcame to 
pa that many of the Lamanites did come down into the 
and of Zarahemla, and did declaro unto the people of the 
Nephites the manner of their conversion, and did exhort 
them to faith and, repentance; yea, and many did preach 
with exceeding great power and authority, unto the bring- 
ing down many of them into the depths of humility, to be 
the humble followers of God and the Lamb. 
_, And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did go 
into the land northward; a~nd-also Nephi and Lehi went 
into the land northward, to preach unto the people. And 
thus ended the sixty and third year. - And behold, there 
was peace in all the land, insomuch that the —— did 
go into whatsoever part of the land they would, whether 
among the Nephites or the Lamanites. And it came to 
pass that the Lamanites did also go whithersoever they 
would, whether it were among the, Lamanites or amang 
the Nephites; and thus they did have free intercourse one 
with another, to buy and to sell, and to get gain, accord- 
ing to their desire. | 
And it came to pass that they became —— rich, 
both the Lamanites and the Nephites; and they did have 
an exceeding plenty of gold, cad of silver, and of all man- 
ner of precious metals, both in the land south, and in the 
land north. , Now the land south was called Lehi, and the 
land north was called Mulek, which was after the sons of 
Zedekiah; for the Lord did bring Mulek into the land 
north, and Lehi into the land south. And behold, there 
was all manner of gold in both these lands, and of silver, 
and of precious ore of every kind; and there were also 
curious workmen, who did work all kinds of ore, and did 
refine it; and thus they did become rich. They did raise 
grain in abundance, both in the north and in the south; 
and they did flourish exceedingly, both in the north and 
in the south. And they did multiply and wax ere oae 
strong in the land. And they did raise many flocks ani 
herds, yea, many fatlings. Behold, their women did toil 
and spin, and did make all manner of cloth, of fine twined 
linen, and cloth of every kind, to clothe their nakedness. 


£ 


412 pees: oF wELamai!! 


And thits the sixty and foorth'yeardidp y'in peace. 

' And in.the sixty and fifth year, they did also have ‘great joy 

and peace; yea, much preaching; aud many’ ‘prophecies 

concerning that -whick was to come: And thus patecd 
away the sixty and fifth year. BA cy. «8 J 
_ And it came to- pase that in the sixty'and sixth year of 
the reign of the judges, beliold, Cezoram was nrurdered by’ 
an unknown hand, as: he sat upon the: judgment’ seat, 
And it came to pass that in the'same year, that his soh, 
who had been appointed by the peopte in hie stead, was 
also mordered. And thus ended:the sixty and sixth year.’ 
And in the commencement ofthe sixty and seventh year, 
the people began to grow exceeding:wicked again. For 
behold, the Lord had blessed thom solong with the riches 
of the world, that- they had niot been stired up, to anger, to 
wars, nor to bloodsheds;. therefore they begun to set their 
hearts upon their riches; yea, they*bégam to seek to get 

ain, that they might betlifted:up one-above another; there- 
re they began to commit secret murders, and to rob, and 

to plunder, that they might get gein.. And now behold, 

those murdgrers and plunderere:‘were'a band who had been 
formed by Kishkumen and Gadianton. And now it had: 
come to aid that there were many; even anrong the Ne- 
phites, of Gadianton’s band. But. beltold they were more’ 
numerous among the anere wicked: part of the Lamanites. 
And they were called Gadienton’s robbers and murderers; 
and it was they who did murder the chi¢f judge Cezoram, 
and his son, while in the judgment seat; and behold, they’ 
were net found. 

‘And now it came te paps that when tite Lamanites found 
that there were robbers among them, they were exceeding 
sorrowful; and they ‘did: use every means: in their power, 
to destroy them off the face ‘of tlre earth. But: behold, 
satan did stir up thë heartdof the more part-of the Nephites, 
insomuch that they did unite with those bends of robbers, 
and did enter into their covenants, and their oaths, that 
they would proteet and preserve:one another; in whatso- 
ever difficult circumstances they should be placed, thet 
they should not suffer for. their murders, and their plun- 
derings, and their stealings. NE 

And it canie to pass ‘that they did have their signs, yea, 
their secret signs, and their secret: words; and this that 
they might distinguish a brother who had entered into the 
covenant, that whatsoever wickedness his brother should 
do, he ‘should not’ be injured by his brother, nor by those 
who did belong to his band, who had taken this covenant;. 
and thus they might murder; and plunder and steal, and 


BOOK OF HELAMAN. i 413 


commit whoredoms, and‘all manner of wickedness, con- 
trary to the laws of their country and also the laws of their 
God; and whosoever of those who belonged to their band, 
should reveal unto the warld of their wickedness and their 
abominations, should be tried, not according to the laws 
of.their country, but according to the-laws of their wick- 
edness, which had been given by-Gadianton and Kishku- 
men. Now. behold, it is these secret oaths and covenants, 
. which Alma commanded his son should not go forth unto 
the world, lest they should be a means of bringing down 
the people unto destruction. Now behold, those secret 
oaths and covenants did not come forth unto Gadianton 
from the tecords which were delivered unto Helaman; but 
behold, they wére par into the heart of Gadianton, by that 
same being who did entice our first parents to partake of 
the forbidden fruit; yea, that same being who did plot 
with Cain, that if he would murder his brother Abel, it 
should not be kgown unto the world. And he did plot 
with Cain and his followers, from that time forth. And 
also it is that same being who put it into the hearts of the 
people, to build a tower sufficiently high thet they might 
get to heaven. And it was that same being who led on 
the people who came‘from that tower, into this land; who 
sprees the works of darkness and abominations over all 
the face of the land, until he dragged the people down to‘ 
an éntite destruction, and'to an everlasting hell; yea, it ia 
that same being who put it into the heart of Gadianton, to 
still carry on the ork of darkness, and of secret murder} 
and he has brought it forth from the beginning of man, 
even down to this time. And behold, it is he who is the 
author ofall- sin. And behold, he doth carry on his works 
of darkness and secret mirder, and doth hand down their 
plots, and their oaths, and theiy covenants, and their plans 
of awful wickedness, from generation to generation, ac- 
cording as he can get hold upon the hearts of the children 
of men. And now behold, he had got great hold upon the 
hearts of the Nephites; yea, insomuch that they had be- 
come exceeding wicked; yea, the mare part of them had 
turned out of the way. of righteousness, and did trample 
under their feet the commandments of God, and did turn 
unto their own ways, and did build up unto themselves 
idole of their gold and their silver; i 

And it came to pass that all these iniquities did come 
unto them, in the space of not many years, insomuch that 
amore part of it had come unto them inthe sixty and 
seventh year of the reign othe judges over the people of 


e Ld 


an | - BOOK: OF: HELAMAD. 


Nephi. .. And they did grow it theit iniquities,.in the sixty" 
and ei hth year also, to the great sorrow and lamentation of: : 
the righteous. And thus we see-that et el sepia ta ins 
to dwindle in unbelief, and grow in wickedness and atom-+ 
inations-while the Lamanites: began to grow exceedingly: 
in the. knowledge of their God; yea, they-did’beginto keep: 
his statutes and commandments, and to walk in trath:and. 
— before him. And thug wé -see that the spirit: 
of the Lord bègaa to withdraw from the Nephites; because 
of the wickedness and the hardness of their hearta: And 
thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his spirit 
the Lamanites, becaise of their easihess-and willingness: 
to belidve in his word. E 5. Sa css 
And. it came to. pass that the Lamanites did hunt the: 
band of robbers of Gadiaaton; and they did preach the 
- word of God — tthe more wicked part of them, inso» 
much that this band of robbers was utterly déstroyed from. 
among the Lamanites. And it came to pass that an the 
other hand, that the Nephites did build them up and sup- 
port them, beginning at the more wicked — of them, 
until they had overspread all the land of the Nephites, and 
had seduced.the more part of the righteous until they had 
come down to believe in their works, and partake of their 
spoils, and to join with them in their secret murders and 
combinations. And thus they did obtain the sole m 
ment of the government, insomuch that they did trample 
under their feet, and smite, and rend, and turn their backs 
n the poor, and the meek,.and the humble followers 
of God. And thus we see that they were in an awful state, 
and ripening for an everlasting destruction. And it came: 
to pass that thus ended the sixty and eighth year of the 
reign-of the judged over the — Nephi. 





BOO OP RL AWAN:: ae 
l ‘CHAP TOR Iir, 
THE’ PROPHECY OF NEPHI; 
.. "THE SON OF HELAMAN. 


God threatens the'pebdpie.of Nephi, that he will vinit them in 
hie'anger, to their utter destruction, except they: of 
iheir wickedness. God smiteth the people of Nephi with 
pestilence; they repent: and turn unto him. Samuel, a. 
Lamanite, prophesies unto:the Nephites, 


Brnoxs, now it came -to pase in the sixty and ninth year 
of the reign of the judges over the people of the Nephites, 
thet Nephi, the son of Helaman returned te the land of 
Zarahemla, from the land northward: for he had been forth 
among the people who were in the land northward, and: 
did preach the word of God unto them, and did prophesy 
many things unto them; and they did reject all his words, : 
- insomuch that. he could-not stay among them, but return- 
ed again unto the land of his nativity; and secing the peo- 
ple in a state of such awfal wickedness, and these Gadian-: 
ton robbers filling the judgment seats; having usurped 
the. powér and authority of the land; laying aside the eom- 
nrandments-of God, and not in the least aright before him: 
daing no justice unte the children of men; condemning’ 
the righteous: because of their: righteousness; letting the 
guilty and the wicked go unpunished, because of their 
money; and moreover, tp bo held in office at the head of - , 
government, to rule: and do according: to. their wills, that- 
they might get gain and glory: of the world: and moreover’ 
that they might the nrore easy commit adultery, and steal, : 
and ‘kills and do according to their own wills. Now this’ 
great iniquity had:come upon the Nephites, in the space: 
of not many years; and when: Nephi-.saw it, his heart was! 
swollen with sorrow within his breast ;. and he did exclaim! 
in the agony of his soul, O that I could: have had my days,’ 
in the days when'niy father Nephi fires came out of the land 
of Jerusalem, that I could have joyed with him in the 

mised land; then were sed pita lary be -entreated, 
‘to kéep-the commandments of Ged; and slow ta be led 
todo iniquity; -and they were-quick te hearken unto the 
werds' of thé'Lord; yea, if my ‘days could: have been tm 
them days, then: would my*soul' kavo had joy in the right- 
coushess of -my brethreai But behold, I am consigned: that 
these ate my days, and. that my soul shall be filled with 
sorrow; because -of this: the wickedness of my bretwen: 


416 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


And behold, now it came to that it was upon a tower, | 
which was in the garden of Nephi, which was by the high- 
way which led tothe chief market, which was in the city 
of Zarahemla; therefore, Nephi had bowed himself upon 
the tower which was in his garden, which tower was also 
hear unto the garden gate which led by the highway. 

And it came to pass that there were ¢ertain men passing 
bys and saw Nephi as he was pouring out his soul unto 

od upon the tower, and they ran and told the people what 
they had seen, and the people came together in multitudes 
that they might know the cause of so great mourning for 
the wickedness of the people. And now when Nephi arose 
he beheld the multitudes of people who had gathered togeth- 
er. And it came to that he opened his mouth and said 


unto them, behold, why have ye gathered yourselves togeth- 


er? ThatI may tell you of your iniquities? Yea, because 
I have got upon my tower, that I might pour out my soul 
unto my God, because of the exceeding sorrow of my heart, 
which is because of your iniquities? And bécause of my 
mourning and lamentation, ye have gathered yourselves 
together, and do maryel; yea, and ye have great need to 
marvel; yea, ye had ought to marvel, because ye are given 
away, that the devil has got so great hold upon your hearts; 
yea, hew could ye have given away to the enticing of him 
who is seeking to hurl away — souls down to everlast- 
ing misery and endlesswo? O repent ye, repent ye! seh 
will ye die? Turn ye, turn ye, unto'the Lord your God. 
Why has he forsaken you?’ It is because you have har- 
dened your hearts; yea, yg will not hearken unto the voice 
of the good shepherd; yea, ye have provoked him to anger 
against you. And behold, instead of gathering you, ex- 
cept ye will repent, behold he shall scatter you forth that 
ye shall become -meat for dogs and wild beasts. .O how 
could you have forgotten your God in the very day that he 
has delivered you? But behold, it isto get gain, to be 
praised of mei; yea, and that ye might get gold and sil- 
ver. : And ye have set your hearts upon the riches and the 
vain things of this world, for the which ye do raurder, and 
plunder, and steal, and bear false witness dgainst your 
neighbor, and do all manner of iniquity; and for this cause 
wo shall come unto you except ye shall repent. For if ye 
will not repent, behold this’ great city, and also all those 
great cities which are round about, which are iù the land 
of our possession, shall be taken away, that ye shall have 
no place in them, for behold, the Lord will not grant unto 
you strength, as he has hitherto done, to withstand inst 
your enemies. For behold, thug saith the Lord, I will not 








500K OF HED Mate) 41? 


shew unte 'the wicked of my sttengtli; to onë mére than’ 
the other, save it be uftto those who repent of their sins, 
and hearken unto my words; naw’ thefefore I would that 
ye should behold, my brethren, that it shall be better ‘for’ 
the Lamsanites than for you, except ye shall repent; for be- 
hold they ase more righteousthan you; for they have not sin- 
ned ust that great knowledge which ye have received; 
therefore the Lord will be- merciful unto‘ them: yea, he' 
will lengthen out their days and inerease their seed, even 
when thou shall be utterly destroyéd, except thon shalt: 
repent; yea, wo be unto you: because ofthat great abom- 
ination which has come among you; and: ye have united’ 
yourselves unto it, yen, to that secret band which was es- 
tablished by Gadianton; yea, wo,shall come unto you be- 
cause of that pride'whieh ye have suffered to enter your 
hearts, which hes lifted you up beyend that which is good 
because of your exceeding p riches; yea, wo be nito ' 
you because of your wickedness and abominations. And: 
except ye repent; ye shall perish: yea, even your lands 
shall be taken from you, and ye shall be destroyed from 
off the face of the earth, Behold now I do not eay thet 
these things shall be, of myself, because it is not of myself 
that I know these-things;: but behold; I know that these: 
things: are true, because the Lord God. has made them 
known anto me; therefore b testify that they shalt be. 
And now it came'to pass that when Nephi had said these: 
words, behold thero were men who were judges, who: also- 
belonged to the secret band of Gadianton, and they were- 
abgry, endthey cried ont against him, saying unto the peo- 
ple, why do ye sot seiza upon this man and: bring him forth, 
that he may'be condemned according to the crime which he 
has done? Why seest this man, and' hearest him revile 
against this people and egainstourlaw? For behold, Nephi 
had spoken unto them conceraing the corruptness of their’ 
law; ‘yea, many things did Neplit speak which cannot be- 
written; and nothing did he speak which was contrary to 
thecommandments.ofGod. And these judges were angry 
with him: because he spake plain unte then: concerning’ 
their seeret -works:of darkness; nevertheless: they durst 
net lay their own: hands upon him; for they feared the peo- 
e, lest they shoutd cry out against them; therefore they: 
id cry unto the people, sayings why do ye suffer this man 
to- revile against us? For behold, he doth condemn all 
this:psople, even upto destruction; yea, and also that these 
our t cities shall be taken from us, that we shall have’ - 
ne place in them: Aad now we know that this is impossi- 
ble; for behold we: ate powetful, and our cities great; 


48 BOOK OF HELAMAN, 


therefore our enemies can have no power over us. And it 
came to pass that thus they did stir up the people to anger 
against Nephi, and raised contentions among them; tar 
there were some who did cry out, let this man alone, for he 
ig a good man, and those things whith he saith will surely 
come to pass except we repent; yea, behold all the judg- 
ments will come upon us which he has testified unto us; 
for we know that he has testified aright unto us concerning 
our iniquities. And behold they are many; and he know- 
eth as well all things which shall befall us as he know- 
eth our iniquities; yea, and behold if he had not beer a 
prophet he could not have testified concerning those things. 
And it came to pass that those people who sought to de- 
stroy Nephi, were compelled because of their fear, that 
they did not lay their hands on him. Therefore he began 
again to speak unto them, seeing that he had gained favor 
in the eyes of some, insomuch that the remainder of them 
did fear. Therefore.he was constrained to speak more un- 
to them, saying, behold my brethren, have ye not read that 
God gave power unto one man, even Moses, to smite upor 
the waters of the Red Sea, and they parted hither and thith- 
er, insomuch that the Israelites, who were.our fathera, 
came through upon dry ground, and the waters closed upon 
the armies of the Egyptians, and swallowed them up? 
And now behold, if God gaye unto this man such pow- 
er, then why should ye dispute among yourselves, and say 
that he hath given unto me no power whereby I may know 
concerning the judgments that shall come upon you except 
ye repent? But behold, ye not only deny my words, but: 
ye also deny all the words which hath been spoken by oar 
fathers, and also the words which were spoken by this man, 
Moses, who had such great power given unto him; yea, the 
words which he hath spoken concerning the coming of 
the Messiah. Yea, did he not bear record, that the Son 
of God should come? .And as he lifted up the brazen ser- 
pent in the wilderness, even so shall he be lifted up who 
should come. And as many as should look upon that 
serpent should live, even so as many as should look upon 
the Son of God, with faith, having a contrite spjrit, might 
live, even unto that life which is eternal: And now be- 
hold, Moses did not only testify of, these things, but also 
all the holy prophets, from his days even to the days of 
Abraham. Yea, and behold, Abraham saw: of his coming, 
and was filled with gladness, and did yejoice. Yea, and 
-behold I say unto you, that Abraham not only knew of 
these things, but there were many before the days of Abra- 
ham who were called by the order of.God; yeal even after 








BOOK OF HELAMAN. 419 


the’ order of his Sdn; and thisthat it should be shewn unto 

the people a great many thousand years before his coming, 

that even redemption should come unto them. And: now 

I would that ye should know, that even since the days of 

Abraham, there have been many prophets that have testi- 

fied thesé things; yed, behold, the prophet Zends did tes- 

tify boldly; forthe which he was‘slain. And behold, also 

Zenock, and also Ezias, and also Isaiah, and Jeremiah, 

(Jeremiah being that same prophet who. testified of the de- 

struction of Jerusalem.)' And now we know that Jerusa- 
lem was destroyed according to the words of Jeromiah. -O 

then why not the Son of God come, according to his proph- 

ecy? And now will ye dispute that Jerusalem was de- 
stroyed? Wih ye say that the sons of Zedekiah were not 
slain, all except it were Mulek?: Yea, and do ye not be- 
hold that the seed of Zedekiah are with us, and they were 
driven out of the land of Jerusalem? But ‘behold, this is 
not all. Our father Lehi was driven out of Jerusalem, be- 
cause he testified of these things. Nephi algo testified of 
these things, and also almost all of our fathers, even down 
to ‘this time; yea, they have testified of the coming of 
Christ, and have looked forward, and have rejoiced in his 
day which is to come. -And behold, he is God, and he is 
with them, and he did’ manifest himself unto them, that 
they were tedeemed by him; and they g unto him glory, 
because, of that which is to come. And now seeing ye 

know. these things, and cannot deny them, except ye shall 

lie, therefore in this ye have sinned, for ye have rejected 

all these things, notwithstanding’ so many evidences which 

ye have received; yea, even ye have received all things, 

both things in heaven, and all things which are in the earth, 

as a witness that they are.true. But behold, ye have re- 
jected the truth, and rebelled against your holy God; and 

even at this time, instead of laying up for yourselves treas- 
ures in heaven, where nothing doth corrupt, ahd whera 
nothing can come which is unclean, ye are Leaping up for 
yourselves wrath against the day of judgment; yea, even 

at this time ye.are ripening, because of your murders, and 
your fornication and wickedness, for everlasting destrug- 
tien; yea, and except ye repent, it will come unto you 
soon; yea, behold it is now even at your doors; yea, go ye 
in unto the judgment seat, and search; and behold, your 
judge is murdered, and he lieth in his blood; and he hath ` 
been murdered by his brother, who seeketh to sit in the 
judgment seat. And behold, they both belong to your se. 
cret band, whose author is Gadianton, and the evil one who 
seoketh to destroy the souls of men. 


, €00 200K OF HELAMAR. 


Behold. now it came to pass that when Nephi Irat spoken 
these words, certain men who were among them fran to the 
judgment seat; yea, even there were five who. went; and 
they said among themselves, as they went, behold, now we 
will know of a surety, whether this. man be a prophet, and 
God hath commanded him to prophesy such marvellous 
things unto us. Behold we do not believe that he hath; 

` yea, we do not believe that he is a prophet; nevertheless, 
if this.thing which he has said concerning the-chief judge 
be-true, that he be dead, then will we believe that the other 
words which he has spoken are true. And it came to pass 
that they ran in their might, and came in unto the ju 
ment. seat; and behold the chief judge hed fallen to the 
earth, and-did lie in-his blood. And now «behold, when 
they saw this, they were astonished exceedingly, insomuch 
that they fell to the earth; for they had not believed the 
words which Nephi had spoken concerning the chief judge; 
but now when they saw, they believed, and fear came upon 
them, lest el] the judgments. which Nephi had spoken 
should come upon the people; therefore they did quake, 
and had fallen to the earth. Now immediately when the 
judge had been murdered ; he being stabbed by his brother, 
by a garb of secrecy: and he fled, and the servants ran and 
told the people, raising the ery of murder among them. And 
behold the peopledid gather themselves together unto the 
place of the judgment seat: and behold, to their astonish- 
meat, they saw those five men who had fallen tò the earth. 
And now behold, the people knew nothing concerning the 
multitude who had gathered together st the garden of Ne- 
phi; therefore they said among themselves, these men are 
they who have murdered the judge, and God has smitten 
them that they could not flee from ua. j 
And it came to pass that they laid hold on them, and 
bound them, and cast them into prison. And there was a 
proclamation sent abroad that the judge was slain, and that 
the murderers had been taken, and were cast into prison. 
And it came to pass that ón the morrow, the people did as- 
semble themselves together to mourn and to fast, at the buri- 
al of the great chief judge, who had been slain. And thus 
were alse those judges who wereat the garden of Nephi, and 
heard his words, were also gathered together at thé burial. 
And it came to pess that they inquired among the peo- 
ple, saying, where are the five who were sent to inquire 
eoncerning the chief judge whether he was dead? And 
— answered and said, concerning the five whom ye say 
ye have sent, we know not; but there are five, who are the 
murderers, whom. we have caet into prison. And it came 


BOOK OF HELAMAN. ar 


te that the judges desired that they should be brought; 
and they were brought, and ‘behold thay were the five i 
were sent; and behold the judges inquired of them to know 
concerning the matter, and they told them all that they had 
done, saying, we ran and came to the place of the judg- 
ment, and when we saw all things, even as Nephi had tes- 
tified, we were astonished, insomuch that we fell to the 
earth; and when we were recovered from our astonishment, 
behold they cast us into prison. Now as for the murder of 
thisman, we know not who has done it, and only this much 
we know, we ran and came according as ye desired, and 
behold he was dead according to the words of Nephi. 
And now it came ta pass, that the judges did expound 
the matfer unto the people, and did cry out against Nephi, 
saying, behold we know that this Nephi must have agreed 
With some one to slay the judge, and then he might declare 
it unto us, that he might convert us unto his faith, that he 
might raise himself to be a great: man, chosen of God, and 
a prophet; and how behold we will detect this man, and he 
shall confess his fault and make known unto us the true 
murderer of this judge. And it came to pass that the five 
were liberated on the day of the burial. Nevertheless, they 
did rebuke the judges in the words which they had spoken 
against Nephi, and did contend with them one by one, in- 
somuch that they did confound them. Nevertheless, they 
caused that Nephi should be taken and bound and brought 
before the multitude, and they began to question him in 
diverse ways, that they might cross him, that they might 
accuse him to death: saying unto him, thou art confede- 
rate, who is this man that has done this murder? Now 
tell us, and acknowledge thy fault, saying, behold here ia 
money; and also we will grant unto thee thy life, if thou 
will tell us and acknowledge the agreement which thou 
hast made with him. But Nephi said unto them, O ye fools, 
ye uncircumcised of heart, ye blind, and ye stiffnecked 
people, do ye know how long the Lord your God will suffer 
you that ye shali go on in this your way of sin? O ye had 
ought to begin to howl and mourn, because of the great 
destruction at this time which doth await you, except ye 
shall repent. Behold, ye say that I have agreed with a man, 
that he should murder Seezoram, our chief judge. But bee 
hold, I say unto you, that this is because i have testified 
unto you, that ye might know concerning thie thing; yea, 
even for a witness unto you, that I did know of the wick- 
edness and abominations which are among you. And be- 
tause I have done this, yo 7 that I have agreed with a 


422 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


man that he should do this thing; yea, because I shewed 
unto you this sign, ye are angry with me, and seek to de- 
stroy my life. And now behoid, I will shew unto you ano- 
ther sign, and see if ye will in this thing seek to destroy 
me. Behold I say unto you, go to.the house af Seantum, 
who is the brother of Scezoram, and say unto him, has Ne- 
phi, the pretended prophet, who doth prophesy so much 
evil concerning this people, agreed with thee, in the which 
ye have murdered Seezoram, who is your brother? And 

ehold, he shall say unto you, nay. And ye shall say unto 
him, have ye murdered your brother? And heshall stand 
with fear, and wist not 'what to say. And behold, he shall 
deny unto you; and he shall make as if he were astonish- 
ed; nevertheless, he shall declare unto you that he is inno- 
cent. But behold, ye shall examine him, and ye shall find 
blood upon the skirts of his cloak. And when ye have seen 
this, ye shail say, from whence cometh this blood? Do we 
not know that it isthe blood of your brother? And then 
shall he tremble, and shall look pale, even as if death had 
come upon him. And then shall ye say, because of this 
fear and this paleness which has come upon your face, be- 
hold, we know that thou art guilty. And then shall greater 
fear come upon him; and then shall he confess unto you, 
and deny no more that he has done this murder. And then 
shall he say unto you, that I, Nephi, know nothing con- 
cerning the matter, save it were given unto me by the pow- 
er of God. And then shall ye know that I am an honest 
man, and that I am sent unto you from God. 

And it came to pass that they went and did, even accord- 
ing as Nephihad said untothem. And behold, the words 
which he had said, were true; for according to the words, 
he did deny; and also according to the words he did con- 
fees. And he was brougitt to prove that he himself was 
the very murderer, insomuch that the five were set at lib- 
erty; and also was Nephi. And there were some of the 
Nephites who believed on the words of Nephi; and there 
were some also, who believed, because of the testimony of 
the five, for they had been converted while they were in 
prison. And now there were some among the people, who 
said that Nephi was a prophet; and there were others who 
said, behold, he is a god, for except he was a god, he could 
- not know of all.things. For behold, he has told us the 
thoughts of our hearts, and also has told us things; and 
even he has brought unto our knowledge the true murderer 
of our chief judge. 

And it came to pass that there arose a division amo 
the people, insomuch that they divided hither and thither, 








BOOK OF HELAMAN. 423 


and went their ways, leaving Nephi alone, as he was stand- 
ing in the midst of them. And it came to pass that Nephi 
went his way towards his own house, pondering upon the 
things which the Lord had shewn unto him. And it came 
to pass as he was thus pondering,-—being much cast down 
bécause of the wickedness of the peopie of the Nephites, 
their secret works of darkness, aud their murdering, and 
their plunderings, and all manner of iniquities—and it came 
to pass as he was thus pondering in his heart, behold, a 
voice came unto him, saying, blessed art thou, Nephi, for 
those things which thou heat done; for I have beheld how 
thou hast with unwearyingness declared the word which 
I have given unto thee, unto this people. And thou hast 
not feared them, and hast not sought thine own life, but 
have sought my will, and to keep my commandments. And 
now because thou hast done this with such unwearying- 
ness, behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will make 
thee mighty in word and in deed, in faith and in works; 
yea, even that all things shall be done unto thee according 
to thy word, for thou shalt not ask that which is contrary 
to my will. Behold, thou art Nephi, and I am God. Be- 
hold, I declare it unto thee in the presence of mine angels, 
that ye shall have power over this people, and shall smite 
the earth with famine, and with pestilence, and destruc- 
tion, according to the wickedness of this people. Behold, 
I give unto you. power, that whatsoever ye shall seal on 
earth, shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoeverye shall 
loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye 
have power among this people. And thus, if ye shall say 
unto this temple, it shall be rent in twain, it shall be done. 
And if ye shall say unto this mountain, be thou cast down 
and become smooth, it shall be done. And behold, if ye 
shall say, that God shall smite this people, it shall come to 
pass. And now behold, I command you that ye shall go 
and declare unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, 
who is the Almighty, except ye repent, ye shall be smitten, 
even unto destruction. 

And behold, now it came to pass that when the Lord 
had spoken these words unto Nephi, he did stop, and did 
not po unto his own house, but did return unto the mul- 
titudea who were scattered about upon the face of the land, 
and began to declare unto them the word of the Lord, 
which had been spoken unto him concerning their destruc- 
tion, if they did not repent. Now behold, notwithstand- 
ing that great miracle which Nephi had done in arina 
them concerning the death of the chief judge, they di 
harden their hearts, and did not hearken unto the words 


424 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


of the Lord; therefore Nephi did declare unto them the 
word of the Lord, saying, except ye repent, thus saith the 
Lord, ye shall be smitten, even unto destruction. And it 
came to pass that when Nephi had declared unto them the 
word, behold, they did still harden their hearts, and would 
not hearken unto his words; therefore they did revile 
agsinst him, and did seek to lay their hands upon him, 
that they might cast him into prison, But behold,, the 
power of God was with him, and they could not take him 
to cast him into prison, for he was taken by the spirit, and 
conveyed away out of the midst of them. f 

And it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the spirit, 
from multitude to multitude, declaring the word of God, 
even until he had declared it unto them all, or sent it forth 
among all the people. And it came to pass that they would 
not hearken unto his words; and there began to be con- 
sentions, insomuch that they were divided against them- 
selves, and began to sley ane another with the sword. And 
thus ended the seventy and first year of ‘the reign of the 
judges over the people pf Nephi. 


— 
CHAPTER IV. 


AND now it came to pass in the seventy and second year 
of the reign of the judges, that the contentions did in- 
crease, insomuch that there were wars throughout all the 
land among all the people of Nephi. And it was this se- 
eret band of robbers who did carry on this work of destruc- 
tion and wickedness. And thie war did last all that year. 
And in the seventy and third year it did also last. 

+ And it came to pass that in this year, Nephi did cry unto 
the Lord, sgying, O Lord do not suffer that this people shall 
be destroyed by the sword; but O Lord, rather let there be 
a famine in the land, to stir them up in remembrance of 
the Lord their God, and perhape they will repent and turn 
unto thea; and so it was done, according to the words of 
Nephi. And there wasa great famine upon the land, — 
all the people of Nephi. And Thus, in the seventy an 

fourth year, the famine did cantinue, and the wor of de- 
struction did cease by the sword, but became sore by fam- 
ine. And this work of destruction did also continue in the 
seventy and fifth year. For the earth was smitten, that it 
waa dry, and did not yield forth grain in the season of grain; 
and the whole earth was smittey, even among the Laman- 








BOOK -OF -HELAMAN. 425 


ites as well ax among the Nephites, so that they were smite 
ten that they did perish by thousands, in the more wicked 
paris of the land. 

And it came to pass that the people saw that they were 
about to perish by famine, and they began to remember 
the Lord their God; and they began to remember the words 
af Nephi. And the people began to plead with their chief 
judges and their leaders, that they would say unto Nephi, 

ehold we know that thou arta man of God, and there- 
fore cry unto the Lord our God, that he turn away from 
us thia famine, lest all the words which thou hast spoken 
concerning our destruction, be fulfilled. And it came to 
pass that the judges did say unto Nephi, according to. the 
words which had been desired. And it came to pass that 
when Nephi saw that the people had repented, and did 
humble themselves in sackcloth, he cried again unto the 
Lord, saying, O Lord, behold this people repenteth ; and 
they have swept away the band of-Gadianton from amongst 
them, insomuch that they have become -extinct, and 
they have concealed their secret plans in the earth. 
Now, O Lord, because of this their humility, wilt thou 
turn away thine anger, and let thine anger be appeased 
in the destruction of those wicked men whom thou has 
already destroyed? O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine an- 
ger, yea, thy fierce anger, and cause that this famine 
may cease in this land? O Lord, Wilt thou hearken 
unto me, and cause that it may be done accordingto my 
words, and send forth rain upon the face ef the earth, 
that she may bring forth her fruit and her grain, in the 
season of grain? O Lord, thou didst hearken unto my 
words when `I said, let there be a famine, that the pes- 
tilence of the sword might eease; and I know that thou 
wilt even at this time, hearken unto my words, for thou 
said, that if this people repent, I will spare them; yea, O 
Lord, and thou seest that they have repented, because of 
the famine, and the pestilence and destruction which has 
come unto them. And now, O Lord, wilt thou turn away 
thine anger, and try againif they will serve thee? And 
if so, O Lord, thou canst bless them according to-thy 
words which thou hast said. . 

And it epme to pass that in: the seventy and sixth year, 
the Lord did turn away his anger from the people, and 
caused that rain should fall upon the earth, insomuch that 
it did bring forth her fruit in the season of her fruit. And 
it came to pass that it did bring forth her grain, in the sea- 
son of her grain. And behold, the people did rejoice, and 

36* 


a28 DOOK oF waraltalt. 


glorify Ged, and the whote face of the land was filled with 
rejoicing; and they did no more seek to destroy Nephi, but 
they did esteem him as a great prophet, anda man of God, 
having great ponar and authority given unto him from Ged. 
And behold, Lehi, his brother, was not a whit behind him 
as to things pertaining to righteousness. And thus it did 
tome to pass that the people of Nephi began to prosper agein 
in the land, and began to build up their waste places, and 
began to multiply and spread, even until they did cover 
the whole face of the land, both on the northward and on 
the southward, from the’sea west, to the-sea east. And it 
came to pass that the seventy and sixth. year did end in 
peace. And the seventy and seventh year began in peace}; 
and the church did spread throughout the face of all the 
land; and the more part of the people, both the Nephites 

and the Lamanites, did belong to the church; and th 
éid have exceeding great peace inthe land; and thusend- 
ed.the seventy.and seventh year. And aleo- they had 
peace in the seventy and eighty year, save it were a few 
contentions concerning the points of doctrine which had 
been laid down by the‘prophets. And in the seventy and 
ninth year, there began to be much strife. Butit came to 
pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many of their brethren, 
who knew concerning the true points of doctrine, heving 
many revelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the 
eople, insomuch that they did put an énd to their strife 

hn that same year. | l 

And it came to pass that in the eightieth year of the 
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there were 
a certain number of the dissenters from the people of 
Nephi,. who had some years before gone over unto the 
Lamanites, and took upon themselves the name of La- 
manitess; and also, a certain number who were real 
descendants of the Lamanites, being stirred up to anger 
by them, or by those dissenters, therefore they commenced 
a war with their brethren. And they did commit murder 
and plunder; and then they would retreat back into ‘the 
mountains, and into the wilderness and secret places, 
hiding themselves that they could not be discovered, re- 
ceiving daily an addition to their numbers, inasmueh as 
there were dissenters that went forth unto them; and thus 

m time, yea, even in the apace of not many years, th 
became an exceeding great band of robbers; and they did 
search out all the secret plans of Gadianton; and thus 
they -hecame robbers of Gadianton. Now behold, these 
ts did make great havoc, yen, even great destruction 


BOOK OF HELAMAN. 7 5 


among the people of Nephi, and also among the people of 
the Lamanitems 

And it camato pass that it was expedient that there 
should be a stop put to this work of destruction; therefore 
they sent an army of strong men into the wilderness, and 
upon the mountains to search out this band of robbers, and 
to destroy them. ‘But behold, it came to pass that in that 
game year, they were driven back even into their own 
lands. And thus ended the eightieth year of the reign of 
the-judges over the people of Nephi. 

And it came to passin the commencement of the eighty 
and first year, they did go forth again against this bead of 
robbers, and did destroy many; and they were also visited 
with much destruction; and they were again obliged to 
return ont of the wilderness, and out of the mountains, 
unto their own lands, because of the exceeding greatness 
of the numbers of those robbers who. infested the moune 
tains and the wilderness. And it came to pass that thus 
ended this year, And the robbers did still increase and 
‘wax strong, insomuch that they did defy the whole armies 
of the Nephites, and also of the Lamanites; and they did 
cause great fear to come unto the people, upon all the face 
of the lend; yea, for they did visit many parts of the land, 
and did-do great destruction unto them; yea, did kill 
many, and-did carry away others captivo into the wilder- 
ness; yea, and more especially their women and their chil- 
dren. Now this great evil, which came unto the people 
because of their iniquity did stir them up again in remem» 
brance of the Lord their God. And thus ended the eighty 
and first year of the reign of the judges. And in the 
eighty ahd second year, they began again to forget the 
Lord their God. And in the eighty and third year, they 
hegan to wax strong in iniquity. And inthe eighty and 
fourth year, they did not mend their ways. And it came 
to pass in the eighty and fifth year, they did wax stronger 
‘and stronger in their pride, and in their wickedness; an 
thus they were ripening again for destruction. And thus 
ended the eighty and fifth year. And thus we can behold 
how false, and alsothe unsteadiness of the hearts of the 
children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord in his 
great infinite goodness, doth bless and prosper those who 
put their trustin him; yea, and we may see at the very 
time when he doth prosper his people; yea, in the inerease 
of their fields, their flocks, and their herds, and in gold, 
and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every 
kind, and art; eparing their lives, and delivering them out 
of the hands óf their enemies; softening the hearts of their 


a28 DOOK oF WALAMAM. 


glorify Ged, and the whote face of the land was filled with 
fejoicing; and they did no more seek to destroy Nephi, but 
they did esteem him as a great prophet, anda man ef Ged, 
having great — and authority given unto him from Ged. 
And behold, Lehi, his brother, was not a whit behind him 
as to things pertaining to righteousness. And thus it did 
come to pass that the people of Nephi began to-prosper agairt 
in the land, and began to build up their waste places, and 
began to multiply and spread, even until they did cover 
the whole face of the land, both on the northward and on 
the southward, from the'sea west, to thesea east. And it 
came to pass that the seventy and sixth. year did end in 
peace. And the seventy and seventh year began in peace; 
and the church did spread throughout the face of all the 
land; and the more part of the people, both the me areas 
and the Lamanites, did belong to the church; and th 

éid have exceeding great peace inthe land; and thusend- 
ed the seventy-and 1 seventh year. And also they had 
peace in the seventy and eighty year, save it were a few 
contentions concerning the points of doctrine which had 
been laid down by the‘prophets. And in the seventy and 
ninth year, there began to be much strife. But it came to 
pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many of their brethren, 
who knew concerning the true points of doctrine, having 
many revelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the 
people, insomuch that they did put an énd to their strife 

that same year. 

And it came to pass that in the eightieth year of the 
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there were 
a certain number of the dissenters from the people of 
Nephi, who had some years before gone over unto the 
Lamanites, and took upon themselves the name of La- 
manites; and also, a certain number who were reel 
descendants of the Lamenites, being ‘stirred up to anger 
by them, or by those dissenters, therefore they commenced 
a war with their brethren. And they did commit murder 
and plunder; and then they would retreat back into ‘the 
mountains, and into the wilderness and secret places, 
hiding themselves that they could not be discovered, te- 
ceiving daily an addition to their numbers, inasmuch as 
there were dissenters that went forth unto them; and thus 
m time, yea, even in the space of not many years, they 
became an exceeding great band of robbers; and they did 
search out all the secret plans of Gadianton; and thus 
they hecame robbers of Gadianton. Now behold, these 

æ did make great havoc, yea, even great destruction 


‘BOOK OF HELAMAN. ne a 


among the people of Nephi, and also among the people of 
the Lamanites 

And it cama to pase that it was expedient that there 
should be 9 stop put to this work of destruction; therefore 
they sent an army of strong men into the wilderness, and 
upon the mountains to search out this band of robbers, and 
to destroy them. ‘But behold, it came to pass that in that 
came year, they were driven back even into their own 
lands. And thus ended the eightieth year of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi. 

And it came to passin the commencement of the eighty 
and first year, they did go forth again against this band of 
robbers, and did destroy many; and they were also visited 
with much destruction; and they were again obliged tọ 
return ont of the wilderness, and out of the mountains, 
‘unto their own lands, because of the exceeding greatness 
of the numbers of those robbers who. infested the moun- 
tains and the wilderness. And it came to pass that thus 
ended this year. And the robbers did still increase and 
wax strong, insomuch that they did defy the whole armies 
of the Nephites, and also of the Lamanites; and they did 
cause great fear to come unto the peopte, upon all the face 
of the land; yea, for they did visit many parts of the land, 
and did do great destruction unto them; yea, did kill 
many, and-did carry away others captive into the wilder 
ness; yea, and more especially their women and their chile 
dren. Now this great evil, which came unto the people 
because of their iniquity did stir them up again in remem» 
brance of the Lord their God. And thus ended the eighty 
and first — of the reign of the judges. And in the 
eighty and second year, they began again to forget the 
Lord their God. And in the eighty and third year, they 
began to wax strong in iniquity. And inthe eighty and 
fourth year, they did not mend their waye. And it came 
to pace in the eighty and fifth year, they did wax stronger 
and stronger in their pride, and in their wickedness; an 
thus they were ripening again for destruction. And thus 
ended the eighty and fifth year. And thus we can behold 
how false, and also the unsteadiness of the hearts of the 
children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord in his 
great infinite goodness, doth bless and prosper those who 
put their trast in him; yea, and we may see st the very 
time when he doth prosper his people; yea, in the increase 
of their fields, their flocks, and their herds, and in gold, 
and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every 
kind, and art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out 
of the hands of their enemies; softening the hearts of their 


428 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


enemies, that they should not declare ware against them; 
yer, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and 
appiness of his people; yea, then is the time that the 
do harden their hearts, and do forget the Lord ther 
God, and do trample under their feet the Holy One; 
yea, and this because of their ease, and their exceed- 
ing great prosperity. And thus we see, that except the 
Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, yea, 
except he doth visit them with death, and with terror, 
and with famine, and with all manner of pestilencea, they 
will not remember him. O how foolish, and how vain, 
and how evil, and devilish, and how quick to do iniquity, 
and how slow to do good, are the children of men; yea, 
how quick to hearken unto.the words of the evil one, and 
to set their hearts upon the vain thingsof the world; yea, 
how quick to be lifted up in pride; yea, how quick to 
boast, and do all manner of that which is iniquity; and 
how slow are they to remember the Lord their God, and 
to give ear unto his counsels; yea, how slow to walk in 
wisdom’s paths! Behold, they do not desire that the Lord 
their God, who hath created them, should rule and reiga 
over them, notwithstanding his great goodness and his 
— towards them; they do set at nought his counsels, 
and they will not that he should be their guide.‘ O how 
great is the nothingness of the children of men; yea, even 
they are less than the dust of the earth. For behold, the 
dust of the earth moveth hither and thither, to the dividing 
asunder, at the command of our great and everlasting 
God; yea,behold, at his voice doth the hilla and the moun- 
tains tremble and quake; and by the power of his voice 
they are broken up, and become smooth, yea, even like 
unto a valley; yea, by the power of his voice doth the 
whole earth shake; yea, by the power of his voice, doth 
the foundations rock, even to the very centre; yea, and if 
he say unto the earth, move, it is moved; yea, if he 
say unto the earth, thou shalt go back, that it lengthen 
out the day for many hours, itis done: and thus according 
to his word, the earth — back, and it appeareth anto 
man that the sun standeth atill: yea, and behold, this is 
so; for sure it is the earth that moveth, and not the eun. 
And behold, also, if he say unto the waters of the great 
deep, be thou dried up, itis done, Behold, if hesay unto 
this mountain, be thou raised up, and come over and fall 
upon that city, that it be buried up, behold itis done. And 
behold, if a man hide up a treasure in the earth, and the 
Lord shall say, let it be accursed, because of the iniquity 
of him who hath hid it up, behold, it shall be accursed; 








OIE Fe EE ee ae Oe Ee ee ee so SS — e 


- BOOK OF HELAMAN. 429 


end if the Lord shall say, be thou accursed, that no man 
shall find thee ftom this time hencoforth:and foreves, be- 
‘hold, no man getteth it hencéforth anli forever. And be- 
hold if the Lord-shall say untoa man, because of thine 
iniquities thou shalt be accursed forever, it shail be done. 
And if the Lord shall say, because of thine iniquities, 
thou shalt be cut off from my presence, he will cause that 
it shall be so. And wo unto him to whom he shall say 
this, for it shall be unto him that will do iniquity, and he 
cannot be saved; therefore, for this cause, that men might 
be saved, hath repentanee been declared. Therefore bless- 
ed are they who will repent and hearken unto the voice of 
the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be saved. 
And may God grant, ih his great fullness, that nmen might 
be brought unto repentance and good works, that they 
might be restored unto grace, for grace according to their 
works. And I would that all men might be saved. But 
we read that in that great and last day, there are some who 
shall be cast out; yea, who shall be cast off from the pres- 
ence of the Lord; yea, who shall be-consigned to a state 
of endless misery, fulfilling the words which say, they 
that have done good, shall have everlasting life; and they 
that have don evil, shall have everlasting damnation. 
And thusit is. Amen. ; 


O pn 


CHAPTER V. 
THE PROPHECY OF SAMUEL, THE LAMANITE, 
TO THE NEPHITES, 


AND now it came to pass in the eighty and sixth year, 
the Nephites did still remain in wickedness, yea, in great 
wickedness, while the Lamanites did observe strictly to 
keep the commandments of God, according to the law uf 
Moses. And it came to pass that in this year, there was 
one Samuel, a Lamanite, came into the land of Zarahemla, 
and began to preach unto the people. And it came to 
pass that he did preach many days, repentance unto the peo- 
ple, and they did cast him out, and he was about to return 
to his own land. But behold, the voice of the Lord came 
unto him, that he should return again, and prophesy unto 
the people whatsoever things should come into hie heart. 

And ii came to pass that they would not suffer that he 


490 . BOOK OF HELAMAR, 


should enter into the city; therefore he went and got upon 
the wall thereof, and stretched forth his hand and cried 
with a loud voice, md prophesied unto the people what- 
soever things the Lord put into his heart; and he said unto 
them, behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words 
of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold 
he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people, that 
the sword.of justice hangeth over this people; and four 
bundred years passeth not anay save the sword of justice 
falleth upon this people; yea, heavy destruction awaiteth 
this people, and it surely cometh unto this people, and 
nothing can save this people, save it be repentance and 
faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, who surely shall come inte 
the world, and shall suffer many things, and shall be slain 
for his people. And behold, an angel of the Lord hath 
declared it unto me, and he did bring glad tidings to my 
soul. And behold, I was sent unto you to declare it unto 
you alao, that ye might have glad tidings; but behold ye 
would not receive me, therefore thus saith the Lord, be- 
cause of the hardnees of the hearts of the people of the 
Nephites, except they repent I will take away my word 
from them, and I will withdraw my spirit from them, and 
I wiil suffer them no longer, and I will turn the hearts of 
their brethren against them; and four hundred years shall 
not pass away, before I will cause that they shall be smit- 
ten; yea, I will visit them with the sword, and with famine, 
and with ponc: yea, I will visit them in my fierce 
anger, and there shall be those of the fourth generation, 
who shall live, of your enemies, to behold your utter de- 
struction; and this shall poi come, except ye repent, 
gaith the Lord: and those of the fourth generation shall 
visit your destruction. But if ye will repent and return 
unto the Lord your God, I will turn away mine anger, saith 
the Lord; yea, thus saith the Lord, blessed are they who 
will repent and turn unto me, but wo unto him that re- 
penteth not; yea, wo unto this great city of Zarahemla; 
for behold it 1s because of those who are righteous, that 
it is saved; yea, wo unto this great city, for I perceive, 
saith the Lord, that there are many, yea, even the more 
part of this great city that will hearden their hearts against 
me, saith the Lord. But blessed are they who will repent, 
for them will I spare. But behold, if it were not for the 
righteous who are in this great city, behold I would cause 
that fire should come down out of heaven, and destroy it. 
But behold, it is for the righteous’ sake that it is spared. 
But behold, the time cometh, saith the Lord, that when ye 
shall cast out the righteous from among you, then shall ye 


BOOK OF HELAMAN, o RI 


be ripe for destruction; yea, wo be unto this great city, 
because of the wickedness and abominations which are 
in her; yea, and wo be unto the city of Gideon, for the 
wickedness and abominations which @e in her; yea, and 
wo be unto all the cities which are in the land round about, 
which are possessed by the Nephites, because of the wick- 
edness and abominations which are in them; and behold, 
a curse shall come upon the land, saith the Lord of Hosts, 
because of the people’s sake who are upon the land; yea, 
because of their wickedness and their abominations. 

And it shall come to pass saith the Lord of Hosts, yea, 
our great and true God, that whoso shall hide up treasures 
im the earth, shall find them again no more, because of 
the great curse of the lend, save he be a righteous man, 
and shall hide it up unto the Lord, for I will, saith the 
Lord, that they shall hide up their treasures unto me; and 
cursed be they who hide not up their treasures unto me; 
for none hideth up their treasures unto me save it be the 
Fighteoue; and he that hideth not up his treasures unto 
me, cursed is he, and also the treasure, and none shall 
redeem it because of the curse of the land. And the day 
shall come that they shall hide up their treasures, because 
they have set their hearts upon riches; and because they 
have set their hearts upon their riches, I will hide up their 
treasures when ae shall flee before theit enemies, be- 
cause they will not hide them up unto me; cursed be they, 
and also their treasures; and in that day shall they be 
smitten, saith the Lord, Behold ye, the people of this 
great city, and hearken unto my words; yea, hearken unto 
the words which the Lord saith; for behold, he saith that 
ye are cursed because of your riches, and also are your 
riches cursed because ye have set your hearts upon them, 
and have not hearkened unto the words of him who gave 
them unto you. Ye do not remember the Lord your God 
in the things which he hath blessed you, but ye do always 
remember your riches, not to thank the Lord your God for 
them; yea, your heart is not drawn out unto the Lord, but 
they do swell with great pride, unto boasting, and unto 
great swelling, envyings, strifes, malice, persecutions, and 
murders, aud all manner of iniquities. For this cause 
hath the Lord God caused that a curse should come upon 
the land, and also upon your riches; and this because of 
your iniquities; yea, wo unto this people, because of this 
time which has arrived, that ye do cast out the prophets, 
and do mock them, and cast stones at them, and do slay 
them, and do all manner of iniquity unto them, even as 
they did of old time. And now when ye talk, ye say, if 


430 BOOK OF HELAMAN. 


should enter into the city; therefore he went and got upon 
the wall thereof, and stretched forth his hand and cried 
with a loud voice, ad prophesied unto the people what- 
soever things the Lord put into his heart; and he said ante 
them, behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words 
of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold 
‘he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people, that 
the sword. of justice hangeth over this people; and four 
hundred years passeth not away save the sword of justice 
falleth upon this people; yea, heavy destruction awaiteth 
this people, and it surely cometh unto this people, and 
nothing can save this people, save it be repentance and 
faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, who surely shall come inte 
the world, and shall suffer many things, and shall be slain 
for his people. And behold, an angel of the Lord hath 
declared it unto me, and he did bring glad tidings to my 
soul, And behold, I was sent unto you to declare it unto 
you also, that ye might have glad tidings; but behold ye 
would not receive me, therefore thus saith the Lord, be- 
cause of the hardnees of the hearts of the people of the 
Nephites, except they repent I will take away my word 
from them, and I will withdraw my spirit from them, and 
I will suffer them no longer, and I will turn the hearts of 
their brethren against them; and four hundred years shall 
not pass qway, before I will cause that they shall be smit- 
ten; yea, | will visit them with the sword, and with famine, 
and with pestilence; yea, I will visit them in my fierce 
anger, and: there shall be those of the fourth generation, 
who shall live, of your enemies, to behold your utter de- 
struction; and this shall surely come, except ye repent, 
saith the Lord: and those of the fourth generation shall 
visit your destruction. But if ye will repent and return 
unto the Lord your God, I will turn away mine anger, saith 
the Lord; yea, thus saith the Lord, blessed are they who 
will repent and turn unto me, but wo unto him that re- 
penteth not; yea, wo unto this great city of Zarahemla; 
for behold it 18 because of those who are righteous, that 
it is saved; yea, wo unto this great city, for I perceive, 
saith the Lord, that there are many, yea, even the more 
part of this great city that will hearden their hearts against 
me, saith the Lord. But blessed are they who will repent, 
for them will I spare. But behold, if it were not for the 
righteous who are in this great city, behold I would cause 
that fire should come down out of heaven, and destroy it. 
But behold, it is for the righteous’ sake that it is spared. 
But behold, the time cometh, saith the Lord, that when ye 
shall cast out the righteous from among you, then shall ye 








BOOK OF HELAMAN, 431 


be ripe for destruction; yea, wo be unto this great city, 
because of the wickedness and abominations which are 
in her; yea, and wo be unto the city of Gideon, for the 
wickedness and abominations which @e in her; yea, and 
wo be unto all the cities which are in the land round about, 
which are possessed by the Nephites, because of the wick- 
edness and abominations which are in them; and behold, 
a curse shall come upon the land, saith the Lord of Hosts, 
because of the people’s sake who are upon the land; yea, 
because of their wickedness and their abominations. 
And it shall come to pass saith the Lord of Hosts, yea, 
our great and true God, that whoso shall hide up treasures 
in the earth, shall find them again no more, because of 
the great curse of the land, save he be a righteous man, 
and shal! hide it up unto the Lord, for I will, saith the 
Lord, that they shall hide up their treasures unto me; and 
cursed be they who hide not up their treasures unto me; 
for none hideth up their treasures unto me save it be the 
righteous; and he that hideth not up his treasures unto 
me, cursed is he, and also the treasure, and none shall 
redeem it because of the curse of the land. And the day 
shall come that they shall hide up their treasures, because 
they have set their hearts upon riches; and because they 
have set their hearts upon tbeir riches, I will hide up their 
treasures when a shall flee before theit enemies, be- 
cause they will not hide them up unto me; cursed be they, 
and also their treasures; and in that day shall they be 
smitten, saith the Lord, Behold ye, the people of this 
great city, and hearken unto my words; yea, hearken unto 
the words which the Lord saith; for behold, he saith that 
ye are cursed because of your riches, and also are your 
riches cursed because ye have set your hearts upon them, 
and have not hearkened unto the words of him who gave 
them unto you. Ye do not remember the Lord your God 
in the things which he hath blessed you, but ye do always 
remember your riches, not to thank the Lord your God for 
them; yea, your heart is not drawn out unto the Lord, but 
they do swell with great pride, unto boasting, and unto 
great swelling, envyings, strifes, malice, persecutions, and 
murders, aud all manner of iniquities. For this cause 
hath the Lord God caused that a curse should come upon 
the land, and also upon your riches; and this because of 
your iniguities; yea, wo unto this people, because of this 
time which has arrived, that ye do cast out the prophets, 
and do mock them, and cast stones at them, and do slay 
them, and do all manner of iniquity unto them, even ag 
they did of old time. And now when ye talk, ye say, if 


432 BOOK OF HELABA. 


our days had been in the days of our fathers of dd, ye 
would not have elain'the propheta; ye would not have 
stoned them and cest them out. Behold ye are worse 
than they; for as th® Lord liveth, if a prophet come among 
you, and declareth unto you the word of the Lord, whieh 
testifieth of your sins and iniquities, ye are angry with 
him, and cast him out, and seek all manner of ways to 
destroy him; yea, you will say that he is a false pera 
and that he is a sinner, and of the devil, because he testi- 
fieth that your deede are evil. But behold, if a man shall 
come among you, and shali say, do this, and there is no 
inquity; do that, and ye shall not suffer; yea, he will say, 
walk after the pride of your own hearts; yea, walk after 
the pride of yout eyes, and do whatsoever your heart de- 
sireth; and if a man shall come among you and say this, 
ye will receive him, and say that he is a prophets yea, ye 
will lift him up, and ye will give unto him of your sub- 
stance; ye will give unto him of your gold, and of your 
silver, and ye will clothe him with costly apparel; and 
because he speaketh flattering words unto you, and he 
saith thatall is well, then ye will not find fault with him. 
O ye wicked and ye perverse generation; ye hardened and 
ye stiffnecked people, how long will ye suppose thet the 

ord will suffer you; yea, how long will ye suffer your- 
selves to be led by foolish and blind guides; yea, how long 
will ye choose darkness rather than light; yea, behold the 
anger of the Lord is already kindled against you; behold, 
he hath cursed the land, -beeause of your iniquity; and be- 
hold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches, that it 
becometh slippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the 
days of your poverty, ye cannot retain them; and in the 
days of ou poverty, ye shall cry unto the Lord; and in 
vain shall ye cry, for your desolation is already come upon 
you, and your destruction is made sure; and then shall ye 
weep and howl in that day, saith the Lord of Hosts, And 
then shall ye lament, and say, O that I had repented, and 
had not killed the Prophets, and stoned them, and cast 
them out; yea, in that day ye shall say,.O that we had re- 
membered the Lord our God, in the day that ho gave us 
our riches, and then they would not have become alip- 
pery, that we should lose them; for behold, our riches are 
gone from us. Behold, we lay a tool here, and on the 
morrow it is gone; and behold, our swords are taken from 
us in the day we have sought them for battle. Yea, we 
have hid up our treasures, and they have slipped away 
from us, because of the curse of the land. O ai we had 
repented in the dey that the word of the Lord came unto 











BOOK OF HELAMAM, 42 


us; for behold the land is cursed, and all things have be- 
come elippetys and we cannot hold them, Behold we are 
surrounded by demons, yea, we are encircled about by 
the angels of him who hath sought to destroy our souls. 
Behold, our iniquities are great. O Lord, canst thou 
not turn away thine anger from us? And this: shail 
be your language in those days. But behold, yont days 
of probation are past: ye have procrastinated the day of 
your salvation, until it is everlastingly too late, and your 
destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all the 
days of your lives for that which ye could not obtein; and 
ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which 
thing ts contrary to the nature of that righteousness which 
is in our great and Eternal Head. O ye people of the land, 
that ye would hear my words. And I pray that the anger 
of the Lord bg turned away from you, ad that ye would 
Fepent and be gaved. . . l 

And now it came to pass that Samuel, the Lamanite, 
did prophesy a great many more things which cannot be 
Written. And behold, he said unto e behold, I give 
unto you a sign: for five years more cometh, and behold, 
then cometh the Son of God to redeem all those who shali 
believe on his name. And behold, this will I give unte 
you fora sign at the time of his coming; for behold, there 
shall be great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night 
before he cometh, there shall be no darkness, insomuch 
that it shall appear unto man as, if it was day; therefore 
there shall be one day and a night, and a day, os if it were 
one day, and thero were no night; and this shall be unte 
you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun, 
and also of ita setting; therefore they shall know of a 
suyety that there shall be two days and a-night; neverthe- 
less the night shall-not be darkened; and it shall be the 
night before he isborn. And behold there shall be a new 
star arise, such an one as ye never have beheld; and this 
also shall be a sign unto you. And behold this is not all, 
there shall: be many signs and wonders in heaven. And 
it shall come to pass that ye shall be amazed, and wonder, 
iffsomuch that ye shall fall to the earth. And it shall come 
to pags that whosoever shall believe on the Son of God, 
the same shall have everlasting life#. And behold, thus 
hath the Lord commanded me, by his angel, that I should 
come and tell this thing unto you; yea, he hath command- 
ed thai I should prophesy these things unto you; yea, he 
hath said unto me, cry unto this people, repent and pre- 
pare the way of the Lord. ee now because I am a La- 


mM SOK OF HËLANAM 


-manite, and have:spoken unto you the words which the 
‘Lord hath commanded me, and because it was hard against 
you, ye are angry with me, and do sedk to destroy me, 
and have cast me out from among you. And ye shall hear 
my words, for, for thisintent have | come up upon the walls 
this aT that ye might hear and know of the judg- 
ments of God which do await you because of your iniqui- 
ties, and also that ye might knew the conditions of repent- 
‘ance; and also that ye might know of the coming of 
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and 
of earth, the Creator of all things, from the beginning; 
and that ye might know of the signs of his coming, to the 
intent that ye might belicve on his name. Andif ye be- 
lieve on his name, ye will repent of all your sins, that 
thereby ye may have a remissidn of them hisugh his mer- 
its.. And behold, sgain, another sign I gwe unto you; 
yea a sign of his death; for beheld, he surely must die, 
that salvation may come; yea, it behooveth him, and be- 
cometh expedient that he dieth, to bring to pass the resur- 
tection-of the dead, that thereby men may be brought into 
the presence of the Lord; yea, behold this death bringeth 
to pass the resurrection, and redeemeth all mankind from 
the first death; that spiritual death for all mankind, by the 
fall of Adam, being cut off from the presence of the Lord, 
or considered as dead, both as to things temporal and to 
things spiritual. But behold, the resurtection of Christ 
tedeemeth mankind, yea, even all mankind, and bringeth 
them back into the presence of the Lord; yea, and it 
bringeth to pass the condition of repentance, that whoso- 
ever repenteth, the same is not hewn down and cast into 
the fire; but whosever repenteth not, is hewn down and 
cast into the fire, and there cometh upon them again a 
spiritual death, yea, a second death, for they are. cut off 
egain asto things pertaining to righteousness; therefore 
repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing these things and not 
doing them, ye shall suffer yourselves to come under con- 
demnation, and ye are brought down unto this- second 
death. But behold, as I said unto you coneerning another 
sign, a sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall 
euffer death, the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give 
his light unto you; ‘and also the moon, and the stars; and 
there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even 
from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of 
three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the 
dead; her at the time that he shall yield up the ghost, 
there sliall be thunderings and lightnings for the space of 
many hours, and the earth shall shake and tremble, and 


the rocks whieh are upon: the face of this earth, which ars 
both abeve the earth and beneath, which ye know. at this 
' time are solid, or the more part of it is one solid masa, shal} 
be broken up; yea they shail be rent in twain, and shall ever 
after be found in sesms and in eracks, and in broken frag» 
ments upon the face of the whole earth; yea, bóth above 
the earth and beneath. And behold there sball be great 
sempesta, ead there shall be many mountains laid low, like 
unto a valley, and there shall. be many places, which are 
now called valleys, which shall become mountains, whose 
height thereof is great, And many highways shall be 
broken. up, and many cities shall become desolate, and 
many graves shall be opened, and shall ‘yield up many of 
their dead; and many saints shall appear unto many. And 
behold thus hath the angel spoken unto me; for he said 
unto me, that there should be thunderings and lightninga 
for the space of many hours;.and he said unto me that 
while the thunder and the lightning lasted, and the tempest, 
that these, things should be, and that darkness should cover 
the face of the whole earth, for the space of three days. 
And the angel said unto me that many shall see greater 
things than these, to the intent that they might believe that 
these signs and these wonders shoukl come to pass, upon 
all the face of this land; to the intent that there should be 
no cause for unbelief among the children of men; and 
this to the intent that whosover will believe, might be 
saved, and that whosgever will not believe, a righteous 
judgmént might come upon them: and also if they are 
condemned, they bring upon themselves their own cone 
demaation. And now remember, remember, my brethren, 
that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and 
whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for be» 
hold ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; 
for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge, and he 
hath made you free; he hath given unto you that ye might 
know good from evil, and he bath given unto you that ye 
might choose life or death, and ye can do good and be 
restored unto that which is good, or have that which is 
good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have th 
which is evil restored unto ypu. And now my belove 
brethren, behold, I declare unto you that except ye shall 
repent, your houses shall be left unto you desolate; yea, 
except ye repent, your women shall have great cause tq 
mourn in the day that they shall give suck; for ye shall 
attempt to flee, and there shall be no place for refuge; 
ea, and wo unto them which are with child, for they shall 
be heavy, and cannot flee; therefore they shall be trodden 


as -ROGOR . OF HELADMAN. 


down, and shall be left to perish; yea, wo unto-this 
who are-calied the people of Nephi, except they shall re- 
pent when they shall sec all these signs and wonders which 
shail be showed unto them; for behold, they have been a 
chosen people of the Lord; yea, the people of Nephi hath 
he loved, and also hath he chastened them; yea, im the 
days of their iniquitics hath he chastened them, because 
he loveth them. But behold my brethren, the Lamanites 
hath he hated, because their deeds have been evil contin- 
wally: and this because of the iniquity of the tradition of 
their fathers. But behold, salvation hath come unto them, 
through the preaching of the Nephites; and for this intent 
hath the Lord prolonged theirdays. And I would that ye 
should behold that the more part of them are in the path 
of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, 
and they do observe to keep his commandments, and his 
statutes, and his judgments, according to the law of Moses, 
Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing 
this, and they are striving, with unwearied diligence, that 
they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the 
knowledge of the truth;. therefore there are many who do 
add to their numbers daily. And behold ye do know of 
yourselves, for ye have witnessed it, that as many of them 
as are brought to the knowledge of the truth, and to know 
ef the wicked and abominable traditions of their fathers, 
and are led to believe the holy scriptures, yea, the prophe- 
cies of the holy prophets, which dre written, which lead- 
eth them to faith on the Lord, and unto repentance, which 
faith and repentance bringeth a change of heart unto them; 
therefore as many. as have.come to this, ye know of your- 
selves, are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing 
wherewith they have been made-free. And ye know also 
that they have buried their weaponsof war, and they fear 
to take them up, lest by any means they should sin; yea, 
ye can see that they fear to sin; for behold, they will suf- 
fer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their 
enemies, and will not lift their swords against them; and 
this because of their faith in Christ. And now because 
of theit steadfastness, when they do believe, in that 
thing which they do believe; for because of their firm- 
ess when they are once enlightened, behold the Lord 
ehall bless them and prolong their days, notwithstand- 
ing their iniquity; yea, even if they should dwindle in 
unbelief, the Lord shall prolong their days until the 
time shall come which hath been spoken of by our fathers, 
and also by the prophet Zenas, aad many other prophets, 
‘cerning the restoration of our brethren, the Lamanites, 








ae 


BOOK OF HRLAMAN. aby 


again, to the knéwledze of the truth; yea, I say unto you! 
that in the latter times, the promises of the Lord hath 
been extended to our brethren, the ‘Lamanites; and not- 
witbetanding the many afflictions which they shail have, 
and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon 
the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten 
amd scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord 
whall be merciful unto them; and this is according to the 
prophecy, that they shall be brought to the true knowledge, 
which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great 
and true Shepherd, and be numbered among his sheepi 
‘Therefore I say unto you, it shall be better for them than 
for you, except ye repent. For behold, had the mighty 
works been shewn unto them which have been shewn unto 
you; yea, unto them who have dwindted in unbelief bo» 
cause of the traditions of their fathers, yc can see of your 
selves, that they never would again have dwindled in unt 
belief; therefore, .saith the Lord, I will not utterly destroy 
them, but I will cause that in the day of my wisdom, thoy 
shall returů again unto me, saith the Lord. And now bes 
hołd, saith the Lord, concerning the people of the Ne- 
ites, if they will not repent, and observe to do my wil}, 
will utterly destroy them saith the Lord, because of their 
Unbetiof, notwithstanding the many mighty works which 
I have done among them; and as surely as the Lord liveth, 
shali these things be, saith the Lord. i 
' And now it came to pass that thers were many wha 
heard the words of Samuel, the Lamanite, which hé spake 
upon the walls of the city. Amnd-as many as believed ow 
his word, went forth end sought for Nephi; amd when they 
bad come forth and-found him, they confessed unto hith 
their sins and-denied not, desiring that they might be bap- 
tized unto the Lord. But as many as there were who did 
wot believe in the words of Samuel, were angry with him; 
and they cast stones at him tipon the wall, and: also man 
shot arrows at him, as he stood upon the wall; but the spirit 
of the Lord was with him, insomuch that they could not 
bit him with their stones, neither with their arrows. Now 
when they sew this, thet they could not hit him, there were 
mahy more who did believe on his words, insomuch that 
they went away unto Nephi to be baptized. For behold, 
Nephi, was baptizing, and prophesying, dnd preaching, 
crying repentance unto the people; shewing signs and 
wonders; working mirdeles among the people, that the 
might kidow that the Christ must shortly come; telling 
thom: of thiags which must — come, that they might 


down, and shall be left to perish; yaa, wo unto-this people 
who are-called the people of Nephi, except they shall re- 
pent when they shall sec all these signs and wonders which 
shail be showed unto them; for behold, they have been a 
chosen people of the Lord; yea, the people of Nephi hath 
he loved, and ulso hath he chastened them; yea, in the 
days of their iniquitics hath he chastened them, because 
he loveth them. But behold my brethren, the Lamanites 
hath he hated, because their deeds have been evil contin- 
wally: and this because of the iniquity of the tradition of 
their fathers. But behold, salvation hath come unto them, 
through the preaching of the Nephites; and for this intent 
hath the Lord prolonged theirdays. And I would that ye 
should behold that the more part of them are in the path 
of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, 
and they do observe to keep his commandments, and his 
statutes, and his judgments, according to the law of Moses. 
Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing 
this, and they are striving, with unwearied diligence, that 
they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the 
knowledge of the truth; therefore there are many who do 
add to their numbers daily. And behold ye do know of 
yourselves, for ye have witnessed it, that as many of them 
as are brought to the knowledge of the truth, and to know 
ef the wicked and abominable traditions of their fathers, 
and are led to believe the holy scriptures, yea, the prophe- 
ties of the holy prophets, which are written, which lead- 
eth them to faith on the Lord, and unto repentance, which 
faith and repentance bringeth a change of heart unto them; 
therefore as many as have.come to this, ye know of your- 
selves, are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing 
wherewith they have been made free. And ye know also 
that they have buried their weaponsof war, and they fear 
to take them up, lest by any means they should sin; yea, 
ye can see that they fear to sin; for behold, they will suf- 
fer themselves that they be trodden down and alain by their 
enemies, and wil] not lift their swords against them; and 
this because of their faith in Christ. And now because 
@f theit steadfastness, when they do believe, in that 
thing which they do believe; for because of their firm- 
mess when they are once enlightened, behold the Lord 
shall bless them and prolong their days, notwithstand- 
ing their iniquity; yea, even if they should dwindle in 
unbelief, the Lord shall prolong their daya until the 
time shall come which hath been spoken of by our fathers, 
and also by the prophet Zenos, and many other prophets, 
concerning the restoration of our brethren, the Lamanites, 








DOOK. OF HRLANAR. aby 


again, to tho knéwledge ofthe trath; yea, I say unto yoni 
thatin the latter times, the promises of the Lord hath 
been extended to our brethren, the ‘Lamanites; and not 
withstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, 
and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon 
the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten 
and scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord 
hali be merciful unto them; and this is according to the 
prophecy, that they shall be brought to the true knowledge, 
which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great 
and true Shepherd, and be numbered among his sheepi 
Therefore I say unto you, it shall be better for them than 
for you, except ye repent. For behold, had the mighty 
works been shewn unto them which have been shewn unto 
you; yéa, unto them who have dwindted in unbelief bo- 
cause of the traditions of their fathers, yc can see of your 
selves, that they never would again have dwindled in un» 
belief; therefore, saith ‘the Lord, I will not utterly destroy 
them; but I ‘will cause that in the day ef my wisdom, they 
shall returů again unto me, saith the Lord. And now bes 
hold, saith: the Lord, concerning the people of the Ne~ 
paea if they will not repent, and observe to do my will, 
will utterly destroy them saith the Lord, because of their 
unbelief, notwithstanding the many mighty works which 
I have done among them; and as surely as the Lord liveth, 
shali these things be, saith the Lord. 
` And now it came to pass that there were. many whd 
heard the words of Samuel, the Lamanite, which hé spake 
upon the walls of the city. And as many as believed ow 
his word, went forth and sought for Nephi; awd when they 
head come forth and-found. him, they confessed unto him 
their sins and-denied not, desiring that they might be bap- 
tized unto the Lord. But as many as there were who did 
not believe in the words of Samuel, were angry with him} 
and they cast stones at him upon the wall, and also man 
shot arrows at him, as he stood upon the wall; bat the spirit 
of the Lord wes with him, insomuch that they could not 
hit him with their stones, neither with their arrows. Now 
when they sew this, that they could not hit him, there were 
mahy more who did believe on his words, insomuch that 
' they went away unto Nephi to be baptized. For behold, 
Nephi, was baptizing, and prophesying, dnd preaching, 
crying repentanee unto the people; shewing signs and 
wonders; working miracles among the people, that they 
might kidow that the Christ must shortly come; telling 
them of thiags which must — come, that they might 


wf 


“ee BOOK OF HELAMAR. 


know and remember at the time of their doming that they 
had been made known unto them beforehand, to the intent 
that they might believe; therefore as many as believed on 
the words of Samuel, went forth unto him to be baptized, 
for they came repenting and confessing their sins. But the 
more part of them did not believe in the words of Samuel; 
therefore, when they saw that they could not hit him with 
their stones and their arrows, they cried out unto their cap- 
tains, saying, take this fellow and bind him, for behold, he 
hath a devii; and because of the power of the devil which 
is in him, we cannot hit him-with our stones and our’ ar 
rows; therefore take him and ‘bind him, and away with 
him. And as they:went forth to lay their hands om him, 
behold, be did cast himself down from the wall, and did 
flee out of their lands, yea, even unto his own country, and 
began to preach and to prophesy among his own people. 
And behold, he was never heard of more among the Ne- 
phites; and thus were the affaire of the people. And thus 
ended the eighty and sixth year of the reign of the judges 
over the people of Nephi. And thus ended, also, the eighty 
and seventh year of the roign of the judges, the more part 
of the people remaining in their pride and wickéd ness, and 
the lesser part walking more — before: God. 
And these were the conditions also, in the eighty and eighth 
year of the reign of the judges. And there was but little 
alteration in the affairs of the people, save it were the 
ple began to be more hardened in iniquity, and domore and 
more of that which was contrary to the commandments of 
God, in the eighty and ninth year of the reign of the judges. 
But it came to pass in the ninetieth year of the reign of 
the judges, there were great signs given unto the people, 
and wonders; and the words of the prophets began to be 
fulfilled; and angels did appear unto men, wise men, and 
did declare unto them giad. tidings of great joy; thes im 
this year the scriptures began to be fulfilled. Neverthe- 
less, the people began to harden their hearts, all save it 
were the most believing part of them, both of the Nephites, 
and also of the Lamanites, and began to depend-upon their 
own strength, and upon their own wisdom, saying, some 
things they may have guessed right, among so many; but 
behold, we know that all these great and marvelous works 
cannot come to pass, of which has been spoken. And 
they began to reason and to contend among themselves, 
saying, that it is not reasonable that such a being as a Christ 
shall come; if so, and he be the Son of God, the Father of 
heaven and of. earth, as it.has been spoken, why wild he 
not shew himself unto us, as. well as unto them who shall 








BOOM: OF HELAMSH. 4 
be-at Jerusslem? Yea, why will he not shew himself in 
this land, as well as in the land of Jerusalem? But behold, 
we know that this is a wicked tradition, which haa been 
handed down unto us by our fathers, to cause us that we 
should believe in some greatand marvelous thing which 
should come to pass, but not among us, but in a land which 
is far distant, a land which we know not; therefore they 
can keep us in ignorance, for we cannot witness with our 
own eyes that they are true. And they will, by the cun- 
ning and mysterious arts of the evil pne, work some great 
mystery, which we cannot understand, which will keep us 
down to be servants to their words, and also servants unto 
them, for we depend upon them to teach us the word; and 
thus will they keep us in ignorance, if we will yield our- 
selves unto them all the days of our lives. And man 
more things did-the people imagine up in their hearts, whic 
were foolish and vain; and they were much disturbed, for 
satan did stir them up to do iniquity continually; yea, hedid 

o about, spteading rumors and contentions upon all the 
face of the land, that he might harden the hearts of the 
people against that which was good, and againet that which 
should come; and notwithstanding the signs and the won- 
ders which were wrought among the reve of the Lord, 
and the many miracles. which they did, satan did get great 
hold upon the hearts of the people, upon all the face of the 
land. And thus ended the ninetieth year of the reign of 
the judges over the people of Nephi. And thus ended the 
book of Helaman, according to the record of Helaman 
and his sons. 


—24O>— 


| THE BOOK OF NEPHI, THE SON OF NEPHI, 
" WHO WAS THE SON OF HELAMAN. 
CHAPTER I. | 


And Helaman was the sow of Helaman, who was the son 

- of Alma, who was the son of Alma, being a descendant 
of Nephi who was the son of Lehi, who came out of Jeru- 
salem in the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, the king 
of Judah. 


Now is came to pass that the ninety and first year had 
passed away; and it was six hyindred years from the time 


48> .$60K OF NEPHI. © 


that Lehi left Jerusstem; and it wasin the year thet Kechoe 
meus was the chief judge and the governor over the land. 
And Nephi, the son of Helaman, had departed out of the 
land of Zarahemta, giving charge unto his son- Nephi, who 
was his eldest son, conceming the plates ef brass, and all 
the. records which had been kept,-and ail those things 
which had been kept sacred, from the departure of Lehi 
out of Jerusalem; then he departed out of the -lend, and 
whither he went, no man knoweth; and his son Nephi 
did keep.the records in his stead, yea, the record of 
this people. | 

And it came to pass that in the commencement of the 
hinety and second year, behold, the prophecies of the pto- 
— began to be fulfilled more fully; for there began to 

e greater signs and greater miracles wrought among the 
people. But there were some who begar to say, that the 
time was past for the words to be fulfilled, whieh were 
spoken by Samuel, the Lamanite. And they began tore- 
joice over their brethren, saying, behold, the time is past, 
and the words of Samuel are not fulfilled; therefore, your 
joy and your faith concerning this thing, hath been vam. 
And it came to pass that they did make'a great uproar 
throughout the land; and the people who belzeved, began 
to be very sorrowful, lest by any means those things which 
had been spoken, might not come te pess. But behold, 
they did watch steadfastly for that day, end that night, 
and that day, which shall be as one day, as if there were 
ho night, that they might know that their faith had net 
been vain. 

Now it came to pass that there wasa day set apart by 
the unbelievers, that all those who believed in those tra- 
ditione should be put to death, except the sign should come 
to pass which had been given by Samuel the prophet. Now 
it game to pass that when Nephi, the son of Nephi, saw 
this wickedness of his people, his heart was exceeding sot- 
rowful. And it came to pass that he went‘out and bowed 
himself down upon the earth, and cried mightily to his 
God, in behalf of his people; yea, those who were about 
to be destroyed because of their faith in the tradition of 
their fathers. And it came to pass that he cried mightly 
ùnto the Lord, all the day; and beheld, the voice of the 
Lord camé untq him, saying, lift up your head and be of 
food cheer, for behold, the time ig at hand, and on this 
night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I 
intu the world, to shew unto the world that I will fulfil all 
that which I have caused ta be apoken by the mouth of 

*y holy prophets, Behold, I come unto my ows, to éaléil 








BOK OF NIVER A 


all things which I have made known unto the ohildren of 
men, from the foundation of the world, atid do the will, 
both of the Father, and of the Son of the Father, becausé 
of me, and of the Son, because of my flesh. And behold, 
the time is at band, and this night shall the sign be given. 

And it came to pass that the words which came unto 
Nephi were fulfilled, according as they had been spoken: 
for behold at the going down ot the sun, there was no dark- 
mess; and the people began to be astonished, because there 
was no darkness whch the night came. And there were 
many who had not believed the words of the prophets, fell 
to the earth, and became as if thoy were dead, for they 
knew that the great plan of destruetion which they had 
aid for those who believed in the word of the prophets, 
had been frustrated, for the signal which had been piven. 
‘was already at hand; and they began to know that the Son 
of God must shortly appear; yea, in fine, all the people 

upon the face of the whole earth, from the west to the 
east, both in the land north and in the jand south, were so 
exceedingly astonished, that they fell to the earth; for they 
knew that the prophets had testified of these things for 
many years, and that the sign which had been given, was 
already at hand; and they began to fear because of their 
mmiquity and their unbelief. 

And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all 
that night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day. 
And it came to pass that the sun did rise in the morning 
again, according to its proper order; and they knew that 
it was the day that the Lord should be born, because of the 
sign which had been given. And it had come to pass, yea,’ 
all things, every whit, aecording to the words of the proph- 
ets. And it came to pass also, that a new star did appear, 
according to the word. And it caine to pass that from this 
time forth, there began to be lyings sent forth among the 
people, by satan, to harden their hearts, to the intent that 
they might not believe in those signs and wonders which 
they had seen; but notwithstanding these lyings and de- 
eeivings, the more part of the people did believe, and were 
converted unto the Lord. And it came to pass that Nephi 
went forth among the people, ahd also many others, bap- 
tizing unto repentance, in the which, there were a great 
remission of sins. And thus the people began again to have 
peace in the land; and there were no contentions, save it 
were a few that began to preach, endeavoring to prove by 
the scriptures, that it was no more expedient to observe the 
law of Moses. Now in this thing they did err, having not 
understood the scriptures. But it came to pass that they’ 


44) SOOK OF NEPHI «© 


that Lehi left Jerusaiem; and it was in the’ yearthet katho-~ 
meus was the chief judge and the governor over the land. 
And Nephi, the son of Helaman, had departed but of the 
land of Zarahemta, giving charge unto his gon: Nephi, who 
was his eldest son, concerning the plates ef brass, and el 
the. records which had been kept, and all those things 
which had been kept sacred, from the departure of. Lehi 
out of Jerusalem; then he departed out of the land, and 
whither he went, no man knoweth; and his son Nephi 
did keep.the records in his stead, yea, the record of 
this people. 

And it eame to pass that in the commencement of the 
ninety and second year, behold, the prophecies of the pro- 
phe began to be fulfilled more fully; for there began to 

e greater signs and greater miracles wrought among the 
people. But there were some who began to say, that the 
time was past for the words to be fulfilled, which were 
spoken by Samuel, the Lamanite. And they began to re- 
joice over their brethren, saying, behold, the time is past, 
and the words of Samuel are not fulfilled; therefere, your 
joy and your faith concerning this thing, hath been vain. 
And it came to pass that they did makes great uproar 
throughout the land; and the people who belteved, began 
to be very sorrowful, lest by any means those things which 
had been spoken, might not come te pess. But behold, 
they did watch steadfastly for that day, and that night, 
and that day, which shall be as one day, as if there were 
ho night, that they might know that their faith had not 
been vain. pa 

Now it came to pass that there wasa day set apart by 
the unbelievers, that all those who believed in those tra- 
ditionashould be put to death, except the sign should come 
to pass which had been given by Samuel the prophet. Now 
it game to pass that when Nephi, the son of Nephi, mw 
this wickedness of his people, his heart was exceeding sor- 
rowful. And it came to pass that he went oat and bowed 
himself down upon the earth, and cried mightily to his 
God, in behalf of his people; yea, those who were about 
to be destroyed because of their faith in tlre tradition of 
their fathers. And it came to pass that he cried mightily 
unto the Lord, all the day; and behold, the voice of the 
Lord came unta him, saying, lift up your head and be of 
food cheer, for behold, the time is at hand, and on this 
night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I 
intuthe world, to shew unto the world that I will fulfil all 
that which I have caused ta be spoken by the mouth of 
biy holy prophets. Behold; I come unio my own, to fulfil 











BOCK OF NANNI 4At 


all things which I have made known unto the children of 
men, from the foundation of the world, and do the will, 
beth of the Father, and of the Son of the Father, because 
ọf me, and of the Son, because of my flesh. And behold, 
the time is at hand, and this night shali the sign be given. 

And it came to pass that the words which came unto 
Nephi were fullilied, according as they had been spoken: 
for behold at the going down ot the sun, there was no dark- 
ness; and the people began to be astonished, because there 
was no darkness whch the night came. And there were 
many who had not believed the words of the prophets, fell 
to the earth, and became as if they were dead, for they 
knew that the great plan of destruetion which they had 
laid for those wie believed in the word of the prophets, 
had been frustrated, for the signal which had been yiven 
was already at hand; and they began to know that the Son 
of God must shortly appear; yea, in fine, all the people 
upon the face of the whole earth, from the west to the 
east, both in the land north and in the jand south, were so 
oxceedingly astonished, that they fell to the earth; for they 
knew that the prophets had teatified of these things for 
many years, and that the sign which had been given, was 
already at hand; and they pegea to fear because of their 
imiquity and their unbelief. 

And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all 
that night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day. 
And it came to pass that the sun did nee in the morning 
again, according to its proper order; and they knew that 
it was the day that the Lord should be born, because of the 
sign which had been given. And it had come to pass, yea,’ 
ali things, every whit, aecording to the words of the proph- 
ets. And it came to pass also, that a new star did appear, 
according to the word. And it caine to pass that from this 
time forth, there began to be lyings sent forth among the 
people, by satan, to harden their hearts, to the intent that 
they might not believe in those signs and wonders which 
they had seen; but notwithstanding these lyings and de- 
eeivings, tho more part of the people did believe, and were 
converted unto the Lord. And it came to pass that Nephi 
went forth among the people, and also many others, bap- 
tizing unto repentance, in the which, there were a great 
remission of sins. And thus the people began again to have 
peace in the land; and there were no contentions, save it 
were a few that began to preach, endeavoring to prove by 
the scriptures, that it was no more expedient to observe the 
law of Moses. Now in this thing they did err, having not 
understood the scriptures. But it came to pass that they 


4h BOOK OF. WEPRIx 


ont hataime converted, enil were convinced of the error 
which they were in, for it was mede known unto themthat 
the law was not yet fulfilled, and that it must be fulftled 
in every whit; yea, the word came unto them that it moat 
be fulfilled; yea, that one jot nor tittle should not pasa 
away, till it should all be fulfilled; therefore in this same 
year, were they brought to a knowledge of their error, and 
did confess their faults, And thus the ninety and second 
year did pass away, bringin glad tidings unto the people 

eause of the signe which did come to pass, according to 
the wards of the prophecy of all the holy prophets. 

And it came to pass that the njmety and third year did 
also pass away in peace, save it were for the Gadianton 
robbers, who dwelt upon the mountains, who did infest the. 
lend; for so strong were their holds and their secret places, 
that the people could not overpower them; therefore they did 
commit many murders,and did do much slaughter amo 
the people. And it came to pass that in the ninety an 
fourth year, they began to increase in a great degree, be- 
cause thers were many dissenters of the Nephites who did 
flee unto them, which did cause much sorrow unto those 
Nephites who did remain in the land; and there was also 
a cause of much sorrow among the Lamanites, far behold, 
they had many children who did grow up and began to 
wax strong in years, that they became for themselves, and 
were led away by some who were Zoramites, by their ly- 
ings and their flattering words, te join those Gadianton 
robbers; and thus were the Lamanites afflicted also, and 
began to decrease as to their faith and righteousness, be- 
cause of the wickedness of the rising generation. 

And it came to pass that thus passed away the ninety 
and fifth year also, and the people began to forget those 
signs and wonders which they. hed heard, and began to be 
less and less astonished at a sign or a wonder from heaven, 
insomuch that they began to be hard in their hearts, and 
blind in their minds, and began to disbelieve all which 
they had heard and seen, imagining up some vain thing 
in their hearts, that it was wrought: by men, and by the 
power of the devil, to lead away and deceive the hearts 
of the people; and thus did satan get possession of the 
hearts of the people again, insomuch that he did blind 
their eyes, and lead them away to believe that the doc- 
trine of Christ was a foolish and a vain thing. 

_ And it came to pass that the people began to wax strong 
in wickedness and abominations; and they did not believe 
that there should be any more signs or wonders given; 
and satan did go about, leading away the hearts of the 








IOR OF MERE. -8 


eople, temptigg them aad causing them that shouhi 
Jo — wirke ness in the land, Aad thus — 
the ninety and sixth year; and also the ninety and sever 
year; and also the ninety and eighth year; and also the 
ninety and ninth year; and algo an hundred years had 
passed away, since the days of Mosiah, who was king over 
the people of the Nephites. And six hundred and nine 
‘years had passed away, since Lehi left Jerusalem; and 
nine years had passed away, from the time when the si 
was given, which waa spoken of by the prophets, that Christ 
should come into the wotld. Now-the Nephites began to 
reckon their time from this period when the sign was 

iven or from the coming of Christ; thorefore, nine years 

ad passed away, and Nephi, who was the father of Nephi, 
who had the charge of the records, did not return to the 
land of Zarahemla, and could no where be found in all 
the land. ; 

And it came to pass that the people did still remain in 
wickedness, notwithstanding the much preaching and 
prophesying which was sent among them; and thus passed 
away the tenth year also; and the eleventh year also 
passed away in iniquity. And it eame. to pass in the 
thirteenth year, there began to be wars aad contentions 
throughout all the land; for the Gadianton robbers had 
become go numerous, and did slay so many of the people, 
and did lay waste so many cities, and did spread so much 
death and carnage throughout the land, that it became ex~ 

edient that all the people, bath the Nephites, and the 

amanites, should take up.arms againet them; therefore 
all the Lamanites, who had become converted unto the 
Lord, did unite with their brethren, the Nephites, and 
were compelled, for the safety of their lives, and their 
women and their children, to take up arms against those 
Gadianton robbers; yea, and also to maintain their rights, 
and their privileges of their church, and of their worship, 
and their freedom, and.their liberty. And it eame te poes 
that before this thirteenth year had passed away, the Ne- 
phites were threatened with utter destruction, because of 
this war, which had become exceeding sore. And it 
came to pass that those Lamanites whe hed united with 
the Nephites, were numbered among the Nephites: and 
their curse was taken from them, and their skin became 
white like unto the Nephites; and their young men end 
their daughters became exceeding fair, and they were 
numbered among the Nephites, and were called Nephites. 
And thus ended the thirteenth year. 


And it came to pass im the commencement of the four 


44 BOOM OF Waris. 


faenth year, the war between the robbers and the people 
of Nephi did continue, and did become exceeding sore; 
nevertheless, the people of Nephi did gain some advan- 
tage of the robbers, insomuch that they did drive them 
back out of their lands into the mountains, and into their 
secyet places. And thus endcd the fourteenth year. And 
in the fifteenth year they did come forth against the peo 
ple of Nephi; and because of the wickedness of the people 
of Nephi, and their many contentions and disgensiors, the 
Gedianton robbers did gain many advantages over them. 
And thus ended the fifteenth year, and thus were the peo 
ple in a state of many afflictions; and the sword of de 
struction did hang over them, iasomuch that they were 
about to be smitten down by it, and this because of their 
iniquity. 


oto 
CHAPTER II. 


Awp now it came to pass that in the sixteenth year from 
the coming of Christ, Lachoneus, the governor of the land, 
received an epistle from the leader and the governor o 
this band of robbers; and these were the words which 
were written, saying, Lachoneus, mgst noble and chief 
governor of the land, behold I write this epistle unto you, 
and do give unto you exceeding great praise because of 
your firmness, and also the firmness of your people, in 
maintaining that which ye suppose to be your right and 
liberty: yea, ye do stand well, as if ye were supported by 
the hand of a God, in the defence of your liberty, and your 
property, and your country, or that which ye do call so. 
And it seemeth a pity unto me, most noble Lachoneus, 
that ye should’be so foolish and vain as to suppose that ye 
can stand against so many brave men, who are at my 
eommand, who do now at thie time stand in their arms, 
and do.await, with great — for the word, go down 
upon the Nephites and destroy them. And I, knowing of 
their unconquerable spirit, having proved them in the feld 
of battle, and knowing of thcir everlasting hatred towards 
you, because of the many wrongs which ye have done 
unto them, therefore. if shay should come down against 
you, they would visit you with utter destruction; therefore 
J have wrote this epistle, sealing it with mine own hand, 
feeling for your welfare, because of your firmness in that 
which ye believe to be right, and your noble spirit in the 





: DOCE OF NAIMI. ‘$45 


‘field of battles therefore I write unto you desiring that ye 
would yield up‘unto this my people, your cities, cur landa. 
and your essions, rather than that they should visit 
you with the sword, and that destruction should come upon 
you; or in other words, yield yourselves up unto ns, and 
unite with us, and become acquainted with our secret works, 
and become our brethren, that ye may be like unto us; not 
our slaves, but our brethren, and partners of all our sub- 
stance. And behold, I swear unto you, if ye will do this, 
with an oath, ye shall not be destroyed; but if ye will not 
do this, I swear unto you, with an oath, that on the mor- 
Yow month, I will commend that my armies shall come 
down agdinst you, and they shell not stay their hand, and 
shall spare not, but shal! slay you, and shall. let fall the 
sword upon you, even until ye sirall become extinet. And 
behold, I am-Giddianhi ; and I am the governor of this the 
secret society of Gadianton; which society, and the works 
‘thereof, I know to be good; and they are of an ancient 
date, and they have.been handed down unto us. AndI 
write this epistle unto you, Lachoneus, and I hope that-ye 
will deliver up your lands, and your poseessions, without 
the shedding of blood, that this my people may recover 
their rights and government who have dissented awey 
from you, because of your wickedness. in retaining from 
‘them their rights of government; and except ye do this, I 
will avenge their wrongs. I am Giddianhi. — 
And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this 
epistle, he was exceedingly astonished, because of. the 
boldness of Giddianhi, demanding the possession of the 
land of the Nephites, and. also of threatening the people 
and avenging the wrongs of those that had received no 
‘ wrong, save it were they had wronged. themselves, by dis- 
senting away unto those wicked and abominable fobbers. 
‘Now behold, this Lachoneus, the governor, was a just 
man, and could not be frightened by the demands.and the 
threatenings of a robber; therefore he did not hearken to 
the epistle of Giddianhi, the governor of the robbers, but 
he did cause that his people should ery unto the Lord for 
strength against the time that the robbers should come 
down against them; yea, he sent a proclamation amor 
all the people, that they should gather together their 
women, and their children, their flocks and their herds, 
and all their substance, save it were their land, unto one 
place. And he caused that fortifications should be built 
round about them, and the strength. thereof should be ex- 
ceeding great. And he — that there should be armies, 


cats {BOOK OF YERRI. 


sboth of the’ Mophites and of the Iamanites, or of all them 
“who were numbered among the Nephitesyshonld be placed | 
as guards round about, :to watch them, and to guard them 
“from the robbers, dey: and-night ;-yea;-be.said unto them, 
“ge the Lord liveth, except ye repeut of- all your iniquities, 
-and ery unto the Lord, that-they would‘in. no-wise be de- 
livered out of the hands of those Gadianton robbers. - And 
-g0 great and marvelous were the words-and. prophecies of 
-Lachoneus, that they did -cause : fear toa came. upon.all the 
people, ‘and they did exert themselves in their might, to 

- de according to the. words of Lachoneus. 

-And.it eame:to pass that-Lachoneus did appoint chief 
‘Captains over all the.armias.of the Nephites, ta command 
‘them’ at the time that the robbers- should come down out 
' of the wilderness against them. Now-the chiefest among — 
* all the captains, and the great commander of all the armies | 
.6f the Nephites, was appointed, and. his name was Gid- 
giddoni. . Now it wag the custom among all the Nephites, 
-to appotat: for their chief. captains, save it were in their 
‘times of. wickedness, some one that had the spirit of reve 
: lation, and also prophecy ;-therefore this Gidgiddoni was a 
'. great. prophet.among them, and also was the chief judge. 
ow the people said unte Gidgiddoni, pray unto the Lord, 
‘and let us go up upon-the mountains, and into the wilde- | 
ness, that we may fall upon the robbers and:destroy them, | 
in their own lands. But Gidgiddoni saith unto them, the | 
: Lord forbid; for if-we-should go up. against them, the | 
Lord would deltver-us into their hands; therefore we will 
-` prepare ourselves in the centre-of our lands,.and we will 
-gatherall our armies together, and we will not go against 
‘them, but we- will wait. till, they shall come against us: 
--therefore as the Lord-liveth, if we do this, he -will delive: 
‘them {nto our-hands. - And it came-to pass in the seven- 
--teenth year, in the latter end.of the year, the proclamation 
‘of: Lechoneus; had gone forth throughout all the face of 
v the ‘land,: and.they had.taken their horses, and their 
‘-ehaviots, and their cattle; and all their: flocks, and their 
„herds; and their :grain, and. all their substance, and did 
mareh forth. by thousands;.and by tens of thousands, until 
wthey: hed all gone forth, to the place which had .been ap- 
. pointed, that they should gather, themselves together, to 
-defend themselves against. their. enemies. And the land 
“which was: appointed was the Jand.of Zarahemla and the 
tend -Bountiful;: yeay. to the line which was. between the 
-¢land Bountiful and the land Desolation; and there were a 
- eat many: thousand: people who were called, Nephites, 
who did gather themselveg, together in this land. Now > 











BOON OF KEPRI. 443), 


Lathoneus did cause — should: gather theomecives: 
together in the land southward, because of the great ourse. 
which was upon the- land. northward; and they did fortify 
themselves against their enomies; and they. did dwell in. 
one land, and in one body, and they did: fear the words: 
which had been spoken by Lachoneus, insomuch that they- 
did repent of all their sins; and they did put up-their 
prayers unto the Lord their God; that he would deliver . 
them in the time:that their enemies should come down 
against them to battle. And they were exceeding sor- 
rowful because of their enemy. And Gidgiddoni did. 
cause that they should. make weapons of war, of every 
kind, that they should be strong with armor, and with: 
shields, and with bucklers, after the manner of his in» 
struction. ay <3 a 

And it came to pass that in the latter end of the eigh- 
teenth:year, those armies of robbers had prepared for battle, 
and began to come down, and to sally forth: from the hills, . 
and out of the mountains, and the wilderness, and their 
strong holds, and their secret places, and’ began to tako.. 
possession of the lands, both which was in the land south, 
and whieh wasin the land north, and began to take pos- 
session of ali the lands which had been deserted by the 
Nephites, and the cities which had been left desolate. But 
behold there were no wild beasts nor game.in those lands 
which had been deserted by the Nephites, and there was - 
no game for the robberssave it were in the wilderness. And. 
the robbers could not exist save it were in the wilderness, 
for the want of food; for the Nephites had left their lands 
desolate, and had gathered their flocks, and their herds and- 
all their substance, and.they were in one body; therefore : - 
there was no chance for the robbers to plunder and to ob- - 
tain food, save it were to come up in apen battle against 
the Nephites; and the Nephites- being in one body, and. 
having so great a number, and having reserved for them- 
selves provisions, and horses, and cattle, and flocks of ev-: 
ery kind, that they might subsist for the space of seven 
years, in the which time they did hope te destroy the rob~ - 
bers from off the face of the land. And thus the eighteenth 
year did pass away. GAS 

And it came to: pass that in the nineteenth year, Giddi- 
anhi found that it was expedient that he should go up to 
battle against the Nephites, for there was no way that they 
could subsist, save it were to plunder, and rob, and mut- 
der. And they durst not spread themselves upon the face - 
of the land, insomuch that they could raise grain, lest the ` 
Nephites should come upon them and siay them; therefore - 


— 


Laks BOOK OF WEPHI. 


“both of the Ne ‘and of the Latsanites,-or. of all them 
who were numbered among the Nephitesy should be placed 
'as guards round about,:to wateh them, and to. guard them 
"from tlre robbers, day: and. hight; yea;-he.said unto them, 
-as the Lord liveth, except ye repeut-of all your iniquities, 
and ery unto the Lord, that they would:in. no wise be de- 
livered out of the hands of those Gedianton rubbers, : And 
-80 great and marvelous were the words-and praphecies of 
-Lachoneus, that they did cause fear to came. upon.all the 
people, and they did exert themselves in their might, to 
do according to the words of Lachoneus. 
And it came to pass that Lachaneus did appoint chief 
‘captains over all the.armias-of the Nephites, to command 
them at the time that tke robbers should come down out 
- of the wilderness against them. Now. the chiefest among 
` all: the captains, and the great commander of all the armies 
-of the Nephites, was appointed, and. his name was Gid- 
giddoni. Now it was the custom among all the Nephites, 
to appoint: for their chief captaing,, save it were in their 
times of wickedners, some one that had the spirit of reve- 
: lation, and also prophecy ;.therefore this Gidgiddoni was.a 
. great prophet.among them, and also was the chief judge. 
ow the people said unto Gidgiddoni, pray unto the Lord, 
and let us go up upon the mountains, and into the wilder- 
ness, that we may fall upon the robbers and:destroy them, 
in their own lands. But Gidgiddoni saith unto them, the 
‘ Lord forbid; for if: we should go up against them, the 
Lord would deliver.us iato their hands; therefore we will 
' prepare ourselves- in the centre-of our lands,.and we will 
- gather‘all our armies together,.and we will not go against 
‘them, but we: will wait. till. they shall come against us; 
: -therefore as the Lord-liveth, if we do this, he will deliver 
‘them {nto our hands. : And it came-to-pass in the seven- 
teenth year, in the latter end.of the year, the proclamation 
of: Lechoneus. had. gone forth throughout all the face of 
u the ‘land, and they had:taken their .horses,.and their 
‘ chaviots, and their cattle; and all their: flocks, and their 
herds, and their grain, and all their substance, and did 
‘march forth by thousands; and by tens of thousands, until 
they. had all gone forth, to the place which had been ap- | 
. pointed, that they should gather. themselves together, to 
„defend themselves against. their. enemies. And the land 
‘whieh: ln eae was the land.of Zarahemla and the 
jand- Bountiful;: yeas to the line which was. between -the 
‘¢land Bountiful and the land Desolation; and there were a 
great many: thousand people who were called, Nephites, 
Who did gather themselves, together in this land. Now 








BOOK ‘OF NEPHI:i 4463). 


Lathoneus did canse — should: gather themselves: 
„because of ‘the great ourse - 


together in the land southwar 
which was upon the- land northward; and they did fortify 


themselves against their enemies; and they. did dwell in. 


4 


one land, and in one body, and they did: fear the worde, 


which ‘had been spoken by Lachonens, insomuch that they- 


did repent of all their sins; and they did put up their 


preyers unto the Lord their God; that he would deliver: 


them in the time:that their. enemies should come down . 


against them to battle. And they were exceeding sor- 
rowful because of their enemy. And: Gidgiddoni did 
cause that they should. make weapons of war, of every 
kind, that they should be strong with armor, and wit 

shields, and with bucklers, after the manner of: his: ins 
struction. 


~~ 


And it came to pass that in the latter end of the eigh- . 


teenth year, those armies of robbers had prepared for batile, 


and began to come down, and to sally forth: from the hills,. 


and out of the mountains, and the wilderness, and their 


strong holds, and their secret places, and’ began to tako., 


possession of the lands, both which was in the land south, 
and which was in the land north, and began to take pos- 
session of all the lands which had been deserted by the 
Nephites, and the cities which had been left desolate. But 
behold there were no wild beasts nor game.in those landa 


which had been deserted by the Nephites, and there was - 


no game for the robberssave it were in the wilderness. And 
the robbers could not exist save it were in the wilderness, 
for the want of food; for the Nephites had left their lands. 
desolate, and had gathered their flocks, and their herds and 


all their substance, and.they were in one body; therefore - 
there was no chance for the robbers to plunder and to ob-: ` 


tain food, save it were to come up in open battle against 
the Nephites; and the Nephites: being in one body, and 
having so great a number, and having reserved for them- 


selves provisions, and horses, and cattle, and flocks of ev- 


ery kind, that they might subsist for the space of seven 


years, in the which time they did hope to destroy the rob » 


bers from off the face of the land. And thus the eighteenth 
year did pass away. ' 

And it cume to: pass that in the nineteenth year, Giddi- 
anhi found that it was expedient that ke should go up to 


battle against the Nephites, for there was no way that they . 


could subsist, save it were to plunder, and rob, and mur- 
der. And they durst not spread themselves upon the faece 
of the land, insomuch that they could raise grain, lest the 


Nephites should come upon them and slay:them; therefore - 


T: BOOK OF MEPHE . 


Giddienht gave commandment unto bis armies, thatin this 
year they should go up to battle against the Nephites. 

And it came to pass that they. did come up to battle; and 
it was in the sixth month; and behold, great and terrible 
was the day that they did come up to battle; and they were 

ed-about after the manner. of robbers; and they had a 
emb-skin about their loins, and they were dyed in blaod; 
and their heads wero shorn; and they had head-plates upon 
them; and great and terrible was the appearance of the ar- 
mies of Giddianhi, because of their armor, and because of 
their being dyed in blood. And it came to pass that the 
atthies of the Nephites, when they saw the appearance of 
the army of Giddianhi, had all fallen to the earth; and did 
lift their cries to the Lord their God, that he weuld spare 
them, and deliver them out of the hands of their enemies. 
And it came to pass that when the armies of Giddianhi 
saw this, they began to shout with a loud voice, because 
of their joy; for they had supposed that the Nephites had 
fallen with fear, because of the terror of their armies; but 
in this thing they were disappointed, for the Nephites did 
not fear them, but they did fear.their God, and did suppli- 
cate him for protection; therefore when the armies of Gid- 
dienhi did rush upon them, they were prepared to meet 
them; yea, in the strength of the Lord they did receive 
them; and the battle commenced in this the sixth month; 
and greàt and terrible was the battle thereof; yea, great 
and terrible was the slaughter thereof, insomuch that there 
never was known so great a slaughter among all the peo- 
ple of Lehi since he. left Jerusalem.. And notwithstanding 
the threatenings and the oaths which Giddianhi had made, 
* behold, the Nephites did beat them, insomuch that they did 
fall back from before them.. 

And it came to pass that Gidgiddoni commanded that 
his armies should pursue them as far as the borders of :the 
wilderness, and that they should not spare any that should 
fall into their hands by the way; and thus they did pursue 
them, and did slay them, to the borders of the wilderness, 
oT until they had fulfilled the commandment of Gid- 

oni.. 
. And it came to pass that Giddianhi, who had stood and 
fought with boldness, was pursued as he fled; and bei 
weary beeause of his much 4 ting, he was overtaken 
slain. And thus was the end of Giddianhi, the robber. 

‘And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites did 
return again to theit place of security. And it came to pass 
that this nineteenth year did pass away, and the robbers 
did-not.come.again to. batile; neither did they come again 








Book OF NEPRI- 446» 


in the twentieth'yedr; an@ in the ewerty and first yoarthey’ 
did not come up to battle, but they came up on all sides to: 
lay siege round about the peapie of Nephi; for they -did 
suppose that if they should cus off the people of Nephi- 
from their lands, and should hem them in on every side, 
and if they should cut them off from all their oatward ‘pri-. 
vileges, that they could cause them to yield themselves 
up according to their wishes. Now they had appointed 
unto themselves another leader, whose name was Zemna- 
ribah; therefore it was Zemnariboh that did cause that this 
siege should take place. But behold this was en advan- 
tage to the Nephites; for it was impossible for the robbers. 
to lay siege sufficiently long to have any offect upon- the 
Nephites, beeause of their mueh provision which they had 
laid up in store, because of the scantiness of provisions 
among the rébbers; for behold they had nothing save it 
were meat for their subsistence, which meat they did ob- 
tain in the wilderneas. And it came to pass that the wild 
game became scarce in the wilderness, insomuch that the 
robbers were about to perish with hunger. And the Ne» 
phites were continually marching out by day and by night, 
and falling upon their armies, and cutting them off by 
thousands and by tens of thousands. And thus it became: 
the desire of the people of Zemnasihah, to withdraw from 
their design, because of the great destruction which conte 
upon them by night and by day. | 
And it came to pass that Zemnarihah did give command 
unto his people, that they should withdraw themselves: 
frem the siege, and march into the furthermost parts of : 
the land, northward. And now, Gidgiddoni, being aware 
of theit design, and knowing of their weakness because 
of the want of food, and the great slaughter which had 
been made dntong them, therefore he did send out his 
armies in the night time, and did cut off the way of their 
rétfeat, atid did place his armies in the way of their re- 
treat; arid this:did they. do in the night dime, and got 
on their march beyond the robbers, so that on the mors’ 
row, when the tobbers began their march, they were met 
by the armies of the Nephites, both in their front and in. 
their rear. ` And the robbers who were on the south, were 
also cut Off in their places of retreat. And all these: things. 
were done by command of Gidgiddoni. And there were: 
mariy thousands who did yield themselves up prisoners un- 
to the Nephites; arid the remainder of them were slain; 
and their leadet, Zémnarihah, was taken, and hanged upon 
a tree, yea; éveh upon the He thereof, until he was deed; 


a 


4m:. BQOE OF HEPBI. 


And when thay had hanged himtantil he wes deed, they: 
did fall the tree to the earth, and did cry with a loud voice, 
saying, may the Lord preserve his people.in:ngkteousness 
and in holiness of heart,-that they may cause to be fell to 
the earth all who shall seek to slay them because of power 
and secret combinations, even as this man hath been fell 
to the earth. And they did rejoice and cry again with one 
voice, saying, may the God ef Abraham, and the God of 
Isaac, and the God of Jacob, — this people in right- 
eousnese, so long as they shall call on the name of their 
God for protection. And it came to pass that they did 
break forth, all as one, in singing and praising their God, 
for the great thing which be had done for them, in preserv- 
ing them from falling intothe hands of their enemies; yea, 
they did cry, hosanna to the Most High God; and they did 
cry blessed be the name of the Lord God Almighty, the 
Moet High God. And their hearts were swollen with joy, 
unto the gushing out of many tears, because of the great 
goodnesa of God in delivering them out of the hands of 
their enemies; and they knew it was because of their te- 
pentance and their humility that they had been delivered 
from an everlasting destruction. And now behold there 
was not a living soul among all the people of the Nephites, 
who did doubt in the least the words of all the holy proph- 
eta who had spoken; for they knew that it must needs be 
that they must be fulfilled; and they knew that it must be 
expedient that Christ had come, because of the many signs 
which hed been given, according to the words of the proph- 
ets, and becanse of the things which had come to pass ak 
ready, they knew that it must needs be that all things 
should come to pass according to that which had been 
— therefore they did forsake all their sins and their 
abominations, and their whoredoms, and did serve God with 
all diligence day and night, 

And now it came to pass thet when they had taken all 
the robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape who 
were not slain, they did cast their prisoners into prieon, 
and did cause the word of God to be preached unto them; 
and as many as would repent of their sins and enter into 
a covenant that they would murder no more, were eet at 
liberty; but as many as there were who did not enter into 
a covenant, and who did still continue to have those se- 
oret murders in their hearts; yea, as many as were found 
breathing out threatenings against their brethren, were 
condemned and punished according to the law. ‘And thus 
they did put.an end to all those wicked, and seeret, and 
abominable combinations, in the which there was so much 


BOOK -QF NEPAL. 461. 


wickedness, and so many murders committed. And thus 
had the twenty and second year passed away, and the 
twenty and third year also, and the twenty and fourth, and 
the twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and five years 
assed away, and there had many things transpired which, 
in the eyes of came, would be great and marvellous; nev- 
ertheless, they cannot all be written in this book; yea, 
thie book cannot contain oven a hundredth part of what 
was done among so many people, in the space of twenty 
and five years; but behold there are records which do con- 
tain all the proceedings of this people; and a more short 
but a true account was given by Nephi; therefore I have 
made my record of these things according to the record of 
Nephi, which was engraven on the plates which were 
called the plates of Nephi. And behold I do make the 
record on plates which I have made with mine own hands, 
And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the 
land of Mormon, the land in the which Alma did establish 
the church among the people; yea, the first church which 
was established among them after their transgression. Be- 
hold I ama disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I 
have been called of him to declare his word among his 
eople, that they might have everlasting life. And it hath 
become expedient that I, according to the wilt of God, 
that the prayers of those who have gone hence, who were 
the holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith, 
should make a record of these things which have been 
done: yea, a small record of that which hath taken place 
from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until 
the presdnt time; therefore I do make my record from the 
accounts which ‘have been given by those who were before 
me, until the commencement of my day; and then I do 
make a record of the things which I have seen with mine 
owneyes. And I know the record which I make to be a 
just and.a true record; nevertheless there are many things 
which, according to our language, we are not able to 
write. And now I make an end of my saying which is 
of myself, and proceed to give my account of the things 
which have.been before me. I am Mormon, and a pure 
descendant of Lehi. I have reason to bless my God and 
tny Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our fathers out of 
the land of Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save it were 
himeelf and those whom he brought out of that Jand) and - 
that he hath given me and my peuple so much knowledge 
unto the salvation of our souls. Surely he iath blessed 
the house of Jacob, and hath been merciful unto the seed 
of Joseph. And insomuch as the children of Lehi have 


452° BOOX OF NEPHI. 


kept his commandments, he hath blessed thetn and prós“ 
pered them according tv his word; yea, and surely shalt’ 
he again bring a remnant of the seed of Joseph to the 
knowledge of the Lord their God; and as surely aś the 
Lord liveth will he gather in from the four quarters of the 
earth, all the remnunt of the seed of Jacob, who are seat- 
tered abroad upon’ all the face of the earth; and as he 
hath covenanted with all the house of Jacob, even so shall 
the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted with the 
house of Jacob, be fulfilled in his own due time, unto the 
restoring all the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the 
covenant that he hath covenanted with them; and then 
shall they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ, the 
Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the 
four quarters of the earth, unto their own lands, from 
whence they have been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth, 
so shall it be, Amen. 


é 


—— 


CHAPTER III. 


Anp now it came to pass that the people of the Nephites 
did all return to their own lands, in the twenty and sixth 
ear, every man, with his family, his flocks and his herds, 
is horses and his cattle, and all things whatsoever did be- 
long unto them. And it came to pass thatthey had not 
eaten up all their provisions; thereforé they did take with 
them all that they had not devoured, of all their grain of 
every kind, and their gold, and their silver, and all their 
precious things, and they did return to their own lands 
and théir possyssions, both on the north and on the south, 
both on the land northward and on the land southward. 
And they granted unto those robbers who had entered into a 
covenant to keep the peace, of the band who were desir- 
ous to remain Lamanites, lands, according to their num- 
bers, that they might have, with their labors, wherewith 
to subsist upon; and thus they did establish peace in all 
the land. And they began again to prosper and to wax 
great; and the twenty and sixth and seventh years passed 
away, and there was great order in the land; and they had 
formed their laws according to equity and justice. And 
now there was nothing in all the land, to hinder the people 
from prospering continually, except they should fall into 
transgression, And now it was Gidgiddoni, and the judge 


BOOK -QF NERE: 452 


Lachonens, and those wha had been appointed leaders, 
who had established this great peace, in the land, 
And it came to pass that there were many. cities .built 
apew, and there were. many old, cities repaired and 
there were many highways cast.up, and many roads 
made, which led fram ity to city, and from land to land, ` 
and from place to place. And thug passed away the 
twenty and. eighth, year, and the people had continual, 
peace. But it came.to.passin the twenty and ninth year, 
there began to be some disputings among the people; and 
some were lifted up unto pride and boaatings, because of 
their exeeeding great riches, yea, even unto great perse- 
cutions: for there were many. merchants in the.land, and 
also many lawyers, and many. officers... And the people 
began to be distinguished by ranks, according .to their . 
riches, and their chances for learning; yea, some. were 
ignorant because of their poverty, and others did receive 
great learning because of their riches;. some were lifted 
up in pride, and others were exceeding bumble; some did 
return railing for railing, while others would receive rail- 
ing, and persecution, and all manner. of afflictions, and 
would not turn and revile again, but-were humble and 
penitent before God; and thus there became a great in- 
equality in all the Jand, insomuch that the church began 
ta be broken up; yea, insomuch that in the thirtieth year 
the church was broken up in all the land, save it were 
among a few of the Lamanites, who were converted unto 
the true faith; and they would not depart from it, for they 
were firm, and steadfast, and immovable, willing with all 
diligence to keep the commandments of the Lord. Now 
the cause of this iniquity of the people, was this, satan 
had great power, unto the stirring up of the people to do 
all manner of iniquity, and.to the puffing them up with 
pride, tempting them to seek for power, and authority, and 
riches, and the vain things of the world. And thus satan 
did lead away the hearts of the people, to do all manner 
of iniquity; therefore they had not enjoyed peace but a 
few years. And thusin the commencement of the thir- 
tieth year, the people having been delivered up for the 
space of.a long time, to be carried about by the tempationg — 
of the devil whithersoever he desired to carry them, and 
to do whatsoever iniquity he desired they should; and thus 
in the commencement of this, the thirtieth year, they were 
in a state of awful wickedness. Now they did not sin ig- 
norantly, for they knew. the will of God concerning them, 
for ithad. been taught unto them; therefore they did wilfully 
rebel against God. And now it was in the days of Lacho- 


L 


434" BOOK UF NEPRI. : 


neus, 'the son of Lachoneus, for Lachoneus did ‘fill the seat- 
of his father and did govern the people that year. And 

there began to be men inspired from heaven, and sent 
forth, standing among the people in all the land, preach- 
ing and testifying botdly of the siis and iniquities of the 
people, and testifying unto: them concerning the redemp- 
tion which the Lord would make for his people; or‘in other 
words, the resurrection of Christ; and they did testify 
boldly of his death and sufferings. ‘Now there were many 
of the people who were exceeding angry, because of those 
who testified of these things; and those who were angry, 
were chiefly the chief judges, and they who had been high 
priests and lawyers ;: yea, all those who were lawyers, were 
angry with those who testified of these things. Now'there - 
was no lawyer, nor judge, nor high priest, that coutd have 

power to condemn any one to death, save their condemna- 

tion was signed by the govetnor of the land. Now there 

were many of those who testified of the things pertaining 

to Christ, who testified boldly, who were taken and put 

to death secretly by the judges, that the knowledge of 

their death came not unto the governor of the land, until 

after their death. Now behold this was contrary to the 

laws of the land, that any man should be put to death, ex- 
cept they had power from the governor of the land; there- 
fore a complaint came up unto ‘the land of Zarahemla, to 
the governor of the land, against these judges who had 
condemned the prophets of the Lord: unto death, not ac- 
cording to the law. 

Now it came to pass that they were taken and. brought 
up before the judge, to be judged of the crime which they 
had done, according to the law which had been given by 
the people. Now it came to pass that those judges had 
many friends and kindreds; and the remainder, yea, even 
almost all the lawyers and the high priesta, did gather 
themselves together, and unite with the kindreds of those 
judges who were to be tried according to the law; and 
they did enter into a covenant one with another, yea, even 
into that covenant which was given by them of old, which 
covenant was given and administered by the devil, to com- 
bine against all righteousness; therefore they did combine 
against the people of the Lord, and enter into a covenant 
to destroy them, and to deliver those who were guilty of 
murder from the grasp of justice, which was about to be 
administered according to the law. And they did set at 
defiance the law and the rights of their country; and they 
did covenant, one with another, to destroy the governor, 
and to establish'a king over the land, that the land should - 











an 


BOOK OF WEPHI. a465 


-no more be at'liberty, but should he subject unto kings. 
‘Now behold, I will shew unto you that they did not estab- 
:lish a king over:the land; but in this aame year, yea, the 
thirtieth year, they did destroy upon the judgment seat, 
‘yea, did murder the chief judge of the land. . And the peo- 
‘ple were divided one against another; and they did scpar- 
ate.one from another, into tribes, every, man according. to 


- his family, and his kindred and friends; and thus they did 
. destroy the government of the land. And every tribe did 


appoint a chief, or a leader over them; and thus they be- 
came tribes, and leaders of tribes. Now bchold, there 
was no man among them, save he had much family and 
many kindreds and friends; therefore their tribes became 


- exceeding great. Now all this was done and there were 


no wara as yet among them: and all this iniquity had came 
upon the people, because they did yield themselves unto 
the power of satan; and the regulations of the government 


- were destroyed, because of the secret combination of the 


. $ 


friends and kindreds of those who murdered the prophets. 
And they did cause a great contention in the land, inso- 
much that the more righteous part of the people, although 
they had nearly all become wicked; yea, there were but 
few righteous men among them. And thus six. years had 
not. passed away, since the more part of. the people had 
turned from their righteousness, like the. dog to his vomit, 


- or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire. Now this 


secret combination which had brought so great iniquity 
upon the people, did gather themsclyes together, and did 
place at their head a man whem they did call Jacob; and 
-they did call him their king; therefore he became.a king 
over this wicked band; and he was one of ‘the chiefest 
«vho had given his voice against the prophets who testified 


. of Jesus. : And it came to pass that they were not sostrong 
. in number as the tribes of the people who. were united to- 
i; gether, save it were.their leaders did establish their laws, 
- every one according to his tribe; nevertheless they were 


enemies, notwithstanding they. were not a righteous. peo- 


- ple; yet they were. united in the hatred of those who had 
. entered into a covenant to destroy the government; there- 
. fore Jacob- seeing that their enemies, were more numerque: 
. than they, he being the. king of the -band, therefore, he 
--commanded his people.that they should take their -flight 
..: kata the northernmost: part of the land, and there build up 


unto themselves a kingdom, until they were.joined by.dis- ` 


- senters, (for he flattered them that there would be. many 


wrwith the tribes of 


dissenters,) and they become. sufficiently strong to contend 
the. people. And they did go;-and so 


6 . POOR op RINI. 


speedy was their match, that it could not be impeded, ua» 
til they had gone forth out of the reach of the peqple. And 
thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs of 
the people of Nephi. , 

And it came to pase in the thirty and first year, that they 
wert divided into tribes, every man according to hie fami- 
ly, kindred and friends; nevertheless they had come to an 
agreement that they would not go to war one with ‘another; 
but they were not united as to their laws, and their man- 
` ner of government, for they were established according to 
the minds of those who were their chiefs and their leaders, 
But they did establish very strict laws that one tribe should 
not trespass against another, insomuch that in some degree 
thoy had peace in the land; neverthelesa, their hearts were 
turned from the Lord their God, and they did stone the 
prophets, and did cast them out from among them. 

And itcame to pass that Nephi, having been visited by 
` angels, and also by the voice of the Lord, therefore having 
seen angels, and being eye witness, and having had power 
given unto him that he might know concerning the minis- 
try of Christ, and also being eye witness to their quick ye- 
turn from righteousness unto their wickedness and abom- 
inations; therefore, being grieved for the hardness of their 
hearts, and the blindness of their minds, went forth among 
them in that same year, and began to testify boldly, repent- 
ance and remission of sins through faith on the Lord Jesus 

Christ. And he did minister many things unto them; and 
all of them cannot be written, and a part òf them would not 
suffice; therefore they are not written in this book. And 
Nephi did minister with power and with great authority. 

And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even 
because he had greater power than they, for it were not 
possible that they could disbelieve his words, fór so great 
was his faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, that angels did min- 
ister unto him daily; and in the name of Jesus did he cast 
out devils and unclean spirits; and even his brother did he 
Taise from the dead, after he had been stoned and suffered 
death by the pepe: and the people saw it, and did wit- 
ness of it, and were angry with him, because of hie pow- 
er; and he did also do many more miracles, in the sight of 
the people, in the name of Jesus. 

And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass 
away, and there were but few who were converted unto 
the Lord; but as many as were converted, did truly signify 
unto the people that they had been visited by the power 
and spirit of God, which was in Jesus Christ, in whom they 

‘believed. And as many as had devils cast out from them, 


ST ee ee E ee Sep ie ee ee ee | ON 


BOPK OF NEPHL, ; 4T. 


and were healed of their aicknesses and their infirmities, did 
truly manifest unto the people that they had been wrought 
upon by the spirit of God, and had been healed; and they 
did shew forth signs also, and did da some miracles among: 
the people. ae | 

- ‘Thus passed away the thirty and second year algo, . And 
Nephi did cry unto the people in the commencement of the 
thirty and third year; and he did preach unto them repent- 
ance and remission of sins. Now I would have you to re- 
member also, that there were none who were brought unto 
repentance, who were not baptized with water; therefore 
there were ordained of Nephi, men unto this ministry, that 
all such as should come unto them, should be baptized 
with water, and this as a witness and’a testimony before 
God, and unto the people, that they had repented and re- 
ceived a remission of their sins. And there were many 
in the commencement of this year, that were baptized 
unto repentance: and thus the more part of the year did 
pass away. 


— 
CHAPTER IV. 


Anp now it came to pass that according to our record, 
and we know our record to be true, for behold, it was a 
just man who did keep the record; for he truly did many 
miracles in the name of Jesus; and there was not any man 
who could do a miracle in the name of Jesus, save he were 
cleansed every, whit from his iniquity. „And now it came 
to pass, if there was no mistake made by this man in the 
reckoning of our time, the thirty and third year had passed 
away, and the people began to look with great earnestness 
for the sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, 
the Lamanite; yea, for the time that there should be 
darkness for the space of three days, over the face of the 
land. And there began to be great doubtings and dispu- 
tations among the people, notwithstanding so many signs 
had been given. . J 

And it came to pags in the thirty and fourth year, in the 
first month, in the fourth day of the month, there arose 
a great storm, such an one as never had been known in all 
the land; and there was also a great and terrible tempest; 
and there was terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake 
the whole earth as if it was Atoni to divide asunder; and 


458 BOOK OF NEPHI 


there were exceeding sharp lightnings, such as never hed 
been known in all the land. And the city of Zarahemla did 
take fire; and the city of Moroni did sink into the depths of 
the sea, and the inhabitants thereof were drowned; and 
the earth was carried up upon the city of Moromihah, thet 
in the place of the city thereof, there became a great moun- 
tain; and there was a great and terrible destruction in the 
land southward. But behold, there was a more great and 
terrible destruction in the land northward: for behold, the 
whole face of the land was changed, because of the tempest, 
and the whirlwinds, and the thunderings, and the light- 
nings, and the exeeeding great quaking of the whole earth; 
and the highways were broken up, and the level roads 
werc spoiled, and many smooth places. became rough, and 
many great and notable cities were sunk, and many 
were burned, and many were shook till the buildings 
thereof had fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof 
were slain, and the places were left desolate; and there were 
some cities which remained; but the damage thereof waa 
exceeding great, and there were many in Tein who were 
elain; and there were some who were-carried away in the 
whirlwind; and whither they went, no man knoweth, save 
they.know that they were carried away; and thus the face 
of the whole earth became deformed, because of the tem- 
pests, and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the 
quaking of the earth. And behold, the rocke were rent 
in twain; they were broken up upon the face of the whole 
earth, insomuch that they were found in broken fragments, 
and in seams, and in cracks, upon all the face of the land. 

And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the 
lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quak- 
ings of the earth did cease—for behold, they did last for 
about the space of three hours; and it was said. by some 
that the time was greater; nevertheless, ali these great 
and terrible things were done in about the space of three 
hours; and then behold, there was darkness upon the face 
of the land. 

And it eame to paes that there was thick darkneas upon 
all the face of the land, insomech that the inhabitants 
thereof who had not fallen, could feel the vapoar of dark- 
ness; and there could be no light, because of the darkness, 
neither candles, neither — neither could there be 
fire kindled with their fine and exceeding dry wood, #0 
that there conld not be any light at all; sad there was not 
any tight seen, neither fire, nor glimmer, neither the san, 

t the moon, nor the stars, for so great were the mists of 
darkness which were upon the face of the land. 


' BOOK OF NEPHE, 4539 
' And it eame to pass thet it did lest for the space of three 
days, that there was no light seen; ahd there was great 
mourning, and howling, and weeping among all the peo- 
ple continually; yea, great were the groanings of the 
people, because of the darkness and the great deatruction 
which had come upon them. Avnd in one place they were 
heard to cry, saying, O that we had repented before this 
reat and terrible day, and then would our brethren have 
been spared, and they would not have been burned in that 
eat city Zarahemla. And in another place they were 
eard to cty and mourn, aaying,‘O shat we had repented 
before this great and terrible day, dnd had not killed and 
stoned the prophets, and cast them out; then would our 
mothers, and our fair daughters, and our children have 
- been spared, and not have been buried up in that great 
eity Moronihah; and thus were the howlings of the people 
great and terrible. . 
And it came to pass that there was a voice heard among 
all the inhabitants of the earth upon all the face of this 
land, crying, wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the 
inhabitants of the whole earth, extept they shall repent, 
for the devil — and his angels rejoice, because of 
the slain of the feir sons and daughters of my people; and 
it is because of their iniquity aad abominations that they 
are fallen.- ‘Behold, that great city Zarahemla have 
burned with fire, and the inhabitants — And behold, 
that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in the depths 
of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned. 
And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered 
with earth, end the inhabitants thereof, to hido their 
iniquities and their abominations from before my face, 
that the bload of the prophets and the saints shail not 
come any more unto me against them. And behold, the 
‘city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and the inhabi- 
tants thereof to be buried up in the depths of the earth; 
yea, end the city Onibah, and the inhabitants thereof, 
and the city of Mocum, and the inbabitants thereof, and 
the city of Jerusalem, and the inhabitants thereof, and 
waters have I caused to come up in the stead thereof, to hide 
their wickedness and abominations from before my face, 
that the blood of the prophets and the saints shall not come 
vp any mere unte me against them. And behold, the city 
Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah, and the city of 
Jacob, and the city Gimgimao, all these have I caused to 
be suak, and. made hills and valleys in the places thereof, 
and the inhabitants thereof have I buried up in thedepths 
of the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations 


400 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


from befere my face, that the blood of the prophets and 
the saints should not come up any more unto me against 
them. And behold, that great city Jacobugath, which 
was inhabited by the people of the king of Jacob, have I 
caused to be burned with fire, because of their sins and 
their wickedness, which was above all the wickedness of 
the whole earth, because of their secret murders and com- 
binations; for it was they that did destroy the peace of my 
people and the government of the land: therefore I di 
cause them to be burned, to destroy them from before m 
face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints shoul 
not come up unto me any more against them. And be- 
hold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the city 
of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be 
burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because of 
their wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning 
those whom I did send to declare unto them concerning 
their wickedness and their abominations; and because 
they did cast them all out, that there were none righteous 
among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that 
their wickedness and abominations might be hid from 
before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the 
saints whom I sent among them, might not cry unto me 
from the ground against them; and many great destruc- 
tions have I caused to come upon this land, and upon this 
people, because of their wickedness and their abomina- 
tions. 

O all ye that are spared, because ye were more right- 
eous than they, will ye not now return unto me, and 
repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you? 
Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me, ye 
shal) have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is ex- 
tended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I 
receive; and blessed are those who come unto, me. Be- 
hold I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the 
heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I 
was with the Father from the — I am in the 
Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father 
glorified his name. I came unto my own, and my own 
received me not. And the scriptures, concerning my 
coming, are fulfilled. And as many as have received me, 
to them have I given to become the Sons of God; and even 
so will I to as many as shall believe on my name, for be- 
hold, by me redemption cometh, and in me is the law of 
Moees fulfilled. I am the light and the life of the world. 
Tam Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. And 
ye shail offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; 


BOOK OF NBPHI 461 


yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be do 
away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your 
burnt offerings; and ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me 
a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh 
unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him 
will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost, even as 
the Lamanites, because of their faith in me, at the time of 
their conversion, were baptized with fire and with the 
' Holy Ghost, and: they knew it not. Behold, I have come 
unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save 
the world fromsin: therefore whoso repenteth and cometh 
unto me as a little child, him will I receive; for of such is 
the kingdom of God. Behold, for such I have laid down 
my life, and have taken'it ap again; therefore repent, and 
come unto me ye ends of the earth, and be gaved. , 
And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of 
the land did hear these sayings; and did witness of it. 
And after these sayings there was silence in the land for 
the space of many hours; for so great was the astonishe 
ment of the people that they did cease. lamenting and 
howling for the loss of their kindred which had been slain; 
therefore there was silence in all the land for the space of 
many hours. . | 
. And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto 
the people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of 
it, saying, O ye ro of these gteat cities which have 
fallen, who are descendants of Jacob; yea, who are of 
the house of Israel, hew oft have I gathered you as a 
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and have 
nourished you. And again, how oft would 1 bave gather 
ed you, as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings; 
yea, O ye people of the house of Israel, who have fallens 
ea, O ye people of the house of Israel; ye that dwell at 
erusalem, as ye that have fallen; yea, how oft would I 
have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, and 
7 would not. O ye house of Israel, whom I have spared, 
ow oft will I gather you as a hen gathereth her chickens 
under her wings, if ye will repent and return unto me 
with full purpose of heart. But if not, O house of Israel, 
the places of your dwellings shall become desolate, until 
the time of the fulfilling of the covenant to your fathers. 
And now it çame to pass that after the people had 
heard these words, behold they began to weep and howl 
again, because of the loss of their kindred and friends. 
And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass 
away. And it was in the — and the darkness dis- 
; a 


402 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


persed from off the face of the land, and the earth did 
cease to tremble, and the rocke did cease to rend, and the 
dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultuous 
Noises did pass away, and the earth did cleave together 
again, that it stood, and the mourning and the weep- 
ing, and the wailing of the people who were spared 
alive, did cease; and their mourning wes turned into 
joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanks- 

iving unto the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer. And 
thas far were the scriptures fulfilled, which had been 
spoken by the prophets. And it was the more righteous 
part of the people who were saved, and it was they who 
received the prophets, and stoned them not; and it was 
they who had not shed the blood of the saints, who were 
spared; and they were spared, and were not sunk and 
buried up in the earth; and they were not drowned in the 
depths of the sea; and they were not burned by fire, 
neither were they fallen upon and crushed to death; and 
they were not carried away in the whirlwind; neither 
were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke and of 
darkness. And now whoso readeth, let him understand; 
he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see 
and behold if all these deaths and destructions by fire, and 
by smoke, and by tempests, and whirlwinds, and by the 
opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things, 
are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of .many of 
the holy pipes Behold, I say unto you, yea, many 
have testified of these things at the coming of Christ, and 
were slain because they testified of these things; yea, the 
prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also Zenock 

ake concerning these things, because they testified par- 
ticular concerning us,.who are the remnant of their seed. 
Behold our father Jacob alsd testified concerning a rem- 
nant of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not wea 
remnant of the seed of Joseph? And these things which 
testify of us, are they not written upon the plates of brass 
which our father Lehi brought out of Jerusalem? And it 
came tò pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth 
year, behold I will shew unto you that the people of Nephi 
who were spared, and also those who had been called 
Lamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors 
shewn unto them, and great blessings poured out upon 
their heads insomuch that soon after the ascension of Christ 
into heaven, he did truly manifest himself unto them, 
shewing his body unto them, and ministering upto them; 
and an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. 
Therefore for this time I make an end of my seyings. 


BOOK OF uxxui. 463 
|’ CHAPTER V. - 


Jesus Christ sheweth himself unto the people of Nephi, as 
: the multitude were gathered together in Bountiful, 
and did minister unto them; and on this wise did he shew 


AND now it came to pass that there were a great multi- 
tude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about 
the temple whieh was in the land Bountiful; and they were 
marveling and wondering one with another, and were shew- 
ing one to another the great and marvelous change which 
had taken place; and they were also conversing about thie 
Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given, concerning 
his death. 

+ And it came to pass that while they were thus convers- 
ing one with another, they heard a voice, as if it came out 
af heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they 
understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not 
a harsh voice, neither was ita loud voice; nevertheless, 
and notwithstanding it being a small voice, it did pierce 
them that did hear, to the centre, insomuch that there were’ 
no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, 
it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their 
hearts to burn. And it came to pass that again they heard 
the voice, and they understood it not; and again the third 
time they ‘did hear the voice, and did open their ears to 
hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; 
and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence 
the sound came; and behold, the third time they did un- 
derstand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them, 
behold, my beloved Son; in whom. I am weil pleased, in 
whom I have glorified my name, hear ye him. 

' And it came to pass as they understood, they cast their 
eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a man 
PE out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white 
robe, and he came down and stood in the midst of them, 
and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, 
and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, 
and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an ane 
gel that had appeared unto them. 

. And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand, and 
spake unto the people, saying, behold I am Jesus Christ, 
of whom the prophets testified shall come into the world: 
and behold I am the light and the life of the world, and I 
have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath 
given me, aad have glorified the Father in taking upon me 


464 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


the sins of the world,in the which Ihave suffered the will 
of the Father in all things, from the begimning. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken thees 
words, the whole multitude fell to the earth, for they re- 
membered thet it had been prophesied among them that 
Christ should shew himself unto them efter his ascension 
into heaven. 

And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them say- 
ing, arise and come forth unto’ me, that ye may thrust your 
hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the priats of 
the nails in my hands, end in my feet, that ye may know 
that Iam the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, 
and have been slain for the sins of the world. 

And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and 
thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the 
nails in his hands and in his feet;.and this they did do, go-. 
ing forth one by one, until they had all gone forth, and did 
see with their‘eyes, and did feel with their hands, and did 
know of a surety, and did bear record, that it was he, of 
whom it was written by the prophets, should come. 

And when they had all gone forth, and had witnessed 
for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying, 
hosanna! blessed be the name of the Most High God! And 
they did fall down at the. feet of Jesus, and did woxship 

im. | | 

And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi, (for Ne- 
phi was among the multitude,) and he commanded him 
that he should come forth. And Nephi arose and went 
forth, and bowed himself before the Lord, and he did kiss 
his feet. And the Lord commanded him that he should 
arise. And he arose and stood before him. And the Lord 
said unto him, I give unto you power that ye shall baptize 
this people, when I'am again ascended into heaven. 
again the Lord called othera, and said unto them likewise; 
and he gave unto them — to baptize. And he said unte 
them, on this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be na 
disputations among you. Verily I say unto you, that whoea 
repenteth of his sins through your words, and desireth te 
be baptized in my name, on this wise shali ye baptize them; 
behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and ia 
my name shall ye baptize them. And now behald, these 
are the words which ye shall say, celling them by name, 
saying: Heving authority giren me of Jesus Christ, I bap- 
tize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of 
the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse thepa 
în the water, and oome forth again out of the water. And 
“fter this manner shall ye baptise im my asme, for dehald, 


| 








— ee ee ee ee ee —— 


BOOK OF NEPHI, ‘465 


verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the 
Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father 
in me, and the Father and I are one. . And according as I 
have commanded you, thus shall ye baptize. And there 
shall be no disputations among you, as there hath hitherto 
been; neither shall there be disputations among you cone. 
' cerning the points of my doctriné, ag there hath hitherto 
been; for verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the 
spirit of contention, is not of me, but is of the devil, who 
is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of 
men to contend with anger, one with another. Behold, 
this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with 
anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that 
such things should be done away. Behold, verily, verily I 
gay unto you, I will declare unto you my doctrine. And 
this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father 
hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and 
the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost bear- 
eth record of the Father and me, and I bear record that the 
Father commandeth all men, every where, to repent and 
believe in me; and whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, 
the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall in- 
herit the kingdom of God. And whoso believeth not in 
me, and is not baptized, shall be damned. Verily, verily 
I say unto you, that this is my doctrine; and I bear record 
of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me, believ- 
eth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear 
record of me; for he will visit him with fire, and with the 
Holy Ghost; and thus will the Father bear record of me; 
and the Holy Ghoat will bear record unto him of the Father 
and mie; for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost, arè 
one. And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be- 
come as a little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye 
can in nowise receive these things. And again I say unto 
you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and be- 
come as alittle child, or ye can in nowise inherit the king- 
dom of God. Verily, verily I say unto you, that this is my 
doctrine; and whoso buildeth oo this, buildeth upon my 
rock; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them. 
And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and estab- 
lish it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not 
built upon my rock, but he buildeth upon a sandy founda- 
tion, and the gates of hell standeth open to receive such, 
when the floods come, and the winds beat upon them. 
Therefore go forth unto this people, and declare the words 
which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth. And it 
eame to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto 


468 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


Nephi, and to these who had been called, (now the aum- 
ber of them who had been called, and received power and 
authority to baptize, were twelve,) and behold he stretched 
forth his hand unto the multitude, and cried unto them, say- 
ing, blessed are ye if ye shall give heed unto the words of 
these twelve whom I have chosen from among you ta min- 
ister unto you, and to. be your servants; and unto them I 
have given power, that they may baptize you with water, 
and after that ye are baptized with water, behold I will 
baptize you with fire arid with the Holy Ghost; therefore 
blessed are ye, if ye shall believe in me, and be baptized, 
after that ye have seen me, and know that I am. And 
again, more blessed are they who shall believe in your 
words, because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, 
and that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they whe 
shall believe in your words, and come down into the depths 
of humility, oad be baptized; for they shall be visited with 
fire and with the Holy Ghost, and shall receive a remission 
of their sins. Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit who come 
unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And again, 
blessed are all they that mourn, for they shall be comforted; 
and blepsed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. 
And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after 
righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, 
And blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. 
And blessed are all the pure in heart, for they shall see 
God. And blessed are all the peace-makers, for they shall 
be called the children of God. And blessed are ali they 
who are persecuted, for my name’s sake, for theirs is the 
kingdom of Heaven. And blessed are ye when men shall 
revile you, and persecute, and shall say all manner of evil 
against you falsely, for my sake, for ye shall have great joy 
and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in 
heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets who were be- 
fore you. Verily, verily I say unto’you, I give unto you to 
be the salt of the earth; but if the salt shail lose its savor, 
wherewith shall the earth be salted? The salt shall be 
thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be 
. trodden under foot of men. Verily, verily I say unto you, 
I give unto you to be the nent of this people. A city that 
is set on a hill cannot be hid. Behold, do men light a can- 
dle and put it under a bushel? Nay, buton a candle-stiek, 
and it giveth light to all that are in the house; therefore 
let your light so shine before this people, that they may 
see your good works and glorify your Father who is in 
heaven. Think not that I am come to destroy the law or 
the prophets. I am not come to destroy but to fulfil; for 








L 


— —— ra RR SNCS De Se CC 


BOOK OF EPH. 467 


verily I'say unto-you, one jot nor one tittle hath not passed 
away from the law, but in me it hath all been fulfilled. 
And behold I have given you the lew and the com- 
mandments of my Father, that ye shall’ believe in me, 
and that ye shal! répent of your sins, and come unto me 
with a broken heart and a contrite spirit. Behold, ye have 
the commandments before you, and the law is fulfilled; 
therefore come unto me and be ye saved; for verily I say 
unto you, that xcept. ye shall keep my commandments, 
which I havé commanded you at this time, ye shall in no 
case enter into the kingdom of heaven. ‘Ye have heard ` 
that it hath been said by them of old time, and it is also 
written before you, that thou shalt not kill; and whoso- 
ever shall, kill shall be in danger of the judgment of God. 
But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his 
brother, shall bein danger of ‘his judgment. And who- 
soever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of 
the council; and whosoever shall say thon fool, shall be in 
danger of hell-fire; therefore, if ye shall come unto me, 
or shall desire to come unto me, and rememberest that thy 
brother hath aught against thee, go thy way unto thy 
brother, and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then 
come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I will re- 
ceive you. Agree with thine adversary quickly, while 
thou art in the way with him, lest at any time he shall get 
thee, and thou shalt be cast inta prison. Verily, verily I 
say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence, 
until thou hast.paid ‘the uttermost senine., And while ye 
are in prison, ean ye pay even one senine? Verily, verily 
I say unto you, nay. Behold, itis written by them of old 
time, that thou shalt not commit adultery; but I say unto 
jon that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, 
ath committed adultery already in his heart. Behold, 
I give you a commandment, that ye suffer none of these ` 
things to enter into your heart; for it is. better that ye 
should deny yourselves of these things, wherein ye will 
take up your cross, than that ye should be cast into hell. 
It hath been written, that whosoever shall put away his 
wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. Verily, 
verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away his 
wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to 
commit adultery; and whoso shall marry her who is di- 
vorced, committeth adultery. . And again it is written, 
thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the 
Lord thine oaths. But verily, verily I say unto you, swear 
notat all; neither by heaven, for it is God’s throne; nor 
by the earth, fot it is bis footstool; neither shalt thou 


468 BOOK OF NEPEL 


swear by the head, because thou canst not make one hair 
black or white; but let your communication be yea, yeas 
nay, nay; for whatsoever cometh of. more than these ere 
' evil. And behold, it is written, an eye for an eye, and a 
tooth for a tooth. ButI say unto you, thet ye shall not 
resist evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right 
cheek, turn to him the other also. Ahd if any man will 
sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have 
thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go 
a mile, go with him twain.’ Give to him that asketh thee, 
and to him that would borrow éf thee, turn thou not away. 
And behold, it is written also, that thou shalt love thy 
neighbor, and hate thine enemy; but behold I say unte 
you, love your enemies, bless them that curge you, de 
good to them that hate you, and pray for them who de- 
apie aly use you and persecute you, that ye may be the 
children of your Father who.is in heaven; for he maketh 
his sunto rise on the evil and on the good; therefore 
those things which were of old time, which were un- 
der the law in me, are all fulfilled. Old things are 
done away, and all things have beconie new; therefore 
I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your 
Father who is in heaven is perfect. Verily, verily, I say 
that I would that ye should do alms unto the poor; but 
take heed that ye io not your alms before men to be seen 
of them; ‘otherwise ye have no.reward of your Father 
whoisinheaven. Therefore, when ye shall do your alms, 
do not sound a trumpet before you, as will hypocrites do in 
the synagogues, and in the streets, that they may have glo 
of men. Verily, I say unto you, they have their — 
But when thou doest alms, Jet not thy left hand know what 
thy right hand doeth; that thine alms may be in secret; 
and thy Father who’seeth in secret, himself shall reward 
thee openly. . 

And when thou prayest, thou shalt not do as the hypo- 
crites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues,. 
and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of 
mhen. Verily, I say unto you, they have their reward. 
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, .and 
when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is. 
in secret; and thy Father, who sceth in secret, shall re- 
ward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repeti- 
tions, as the heathen, for they think that they shall be heard 
for their much speaking. not ye therefore like unto 
them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need 
of before ye ask him. After this manner therefore pray 
ye, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. 











BOOK OF NEPHI. - 469 


Fhy will be done on earth as it isin heaven. And forgive 
us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not 
into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the 
kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen.. 
For, if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly 
Father will also forgive you; but if ye forgive not men 
their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your 
trespasses. Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypo-, 
crites, of asad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, 
that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily, I say unto 
you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, 
anoint thy head, and wash thy face; that thou appear not. 
unto men to fast, but unto thy Father, whois in secret; and 
thy Father who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly., 

. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where 
moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and 
steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where 
neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do 
not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, 
there will your heart be also. The light of the body isthe 
eye, if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall 
be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body 
shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in 
thee be darkness, how greatisthat darkness! No man 
can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one, and 
love the other: or else he will hold to the one, and despise 
the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 


amo = 


CHAPTER VI. 


AND now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken 
these words, he looked upon the twelve whom he had 
chosen, and said unto them, remember the words which I 
have spoken. For behold, ye are they whom I have cho- 
gen to minister unto this people. Therefore I say unto 
you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or 
what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall 
put'on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than 
raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, 
neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your 
heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better 
than they? Which of you by taking thought can-add one 
cubit unto his stature? . ae why take ye thought for 


470 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


raiment? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow; 
they toil not, neither do they spin; and yet I say unto you, 
that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like 
one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of 
the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the 
oven, even so will he clothe you, if ye are not of little 
faith. Therefore take no thought, saying, what shall we 
eat? or, what shall we drink? or wherewithal shall we be 
clothed? For yourheavenly Father knoweth that ye have 
need of all these things, But seek ye first the kingdom of 
God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be 
added untoyou. Take therefore no thought for the mor- 
row, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of 
itself. Sufficient is the day unto the evil thereof. 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken 
these words, he turned again tothe multitude, and did 
open his mouth unto them again saying, verily, verily, I say 
untd you, judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what 
judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what 
measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. And 
why beholdest thou’ the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, 
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the mote 
out of thine eye; and behold, a beam isin thine own eye? 
Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye: 
and then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy 
brother’s eye. Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, 
neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample 
them under their feet, and turn again and rend you. 

Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye shall 
find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you, for every 
one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; 
and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. Or what 
man is there of you, whom, if hie son ask bread, will he 
give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him 
aserpent? If ye then being evil know how to give 
gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father 
who is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? 
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should 
do to you, do ye even so to them, for this isthe law and 
the prophets. 

Enter ye in at the straight gate; for wide is the gate, 
and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many 
there be who go in thereat: because straight is the gate, 
and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few 
there be that find it. Beware of false prophets, who come 
to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening 





Boox OF NEPHI. 471 


wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men 
gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? Even so every 
good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree 
bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth 
evil fruit, neither a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, is hewn 
down, and cast into the fire. Wherefore, by their fruits 
ye shall know them. 

Not every one that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter 
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of 
my Father who isin heaven. Many will say to me in that 
day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and 
in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done 
many. wonderful works? And then will I profees unto 
them, I never knew you, depart from me, ye that work 
iniquity. i 

Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine, and 
doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built 
his house upon a rock, and the rain descended, and the 
floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; 
and it fell not; for it was founded upon arock. And 
every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and docth 
them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built 
his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the 
floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that 
house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it. 


—2to— 


CHAPTER VII. 


AND now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended 
these sayings, he east his eyes round about on the multi- 
tade, and said unto them, behold, ye have heard the things 
which I have taught before I ascended to my Father; 
therefore whoso remembereth these sayings of mine, and 
doeth them, him will 1 raise up at the last day. And it came 
to pass that when Jesus had said these words, he perceived 
that there were some among them who marveled, and won- 
dered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they 
understood not the saying, that old things had passed away, 
and that all thingshad become new. And hegaid unto them, 
marvel not that I said unto you, that old things had passed 
away, and that all things had become new. Behold I say 
unto you, that the law is fulfilled that was given unto 
Moses, Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he 


472 , BOOS OF AEPHI 


who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the 
law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfil the law; 
therefore, it hath an end. Behold, I do not destroy the 
prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, 
verily. I say unto you, shall all be fulfilled. And be- 
cause I said unto you, that old things hath passed away, 
I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning 
things which are to come. For behold, the covenant 
which I have made with my people, is not all fulfilled; 
but the law which was given unto Moses, hath an end in 
me. Behold, I am the law, and the light; look unto me, 
and endure to the end, and ye shall live, for unto him that 
endureth to the end will I give eternal life. Behold, I 
have given unto you the commandments; therefore keep 
my commandments. And thisis the jaw and the prophets, 
for they truly testified of me. 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken 
these words, he said unto those twelve whom he had 
chosen, ye are my disciples; and ye are a light unto this 

eople, who are a remnant of the house of Joseph. And 
Pohold, this is the land of your inheritance; and the Father 
hath given it unto you. And not at any time hath the 
Father given me commandment that I should tell it unto 
your brethren at Jerusalem; neither at any time hath the 

ather given me commandment, that I should tell unto 
them concerning the other tribes of the house of Israel, 
whom the Father hath led away out.of the land. This 
much did the Father command me, that] should tell unto 
them, that other sheep I have, which are not of this fold; 
them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and 
there shall be one fold, and one shepherd. And now be- 
cause of stiffneckedness and unbelief, they understood 
not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more 
of the Father concerning this thing unto them. But, 
verily, I say unto you, that the Father hath com- 
manded me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were separated 
from among them because of their iniquity; therefore it is 
because of their iniquity, that they know not of you. And 
verily, I say unto you again, that the other tribes hath the 
Father separeted from them; and it is because of their 
iniquity, that they know not of them. And verily, I sa 
unto you, that ye are they of whonr said, other sheep 
have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, 
and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold. 
and oneshepherd. And they understood me not, for they 
supposed it had been the Gentiles; for they understood not 
that the Gentiles should be converted through their preach- 








, BOOK OF NEPHI. 473 


ikg; and they understood me not that I said they shall 
hear my voice; and they. understood me not that the Gen- 
tiles should not at any time hear my voice; that I should 
nat manifest myself unto them, save it were by the Holy 
Ghost. But behold, ye have both heard my voice, and 
seen me; and ye are my sheep, and ye are numbered among 
those whom the Father hath given me. And verily, verily, 
I say unto you, that I have other sheep, which are not of 
this land; neither of the land of Jerusalem; neither in any 
parts of that land round about, whither I have been to 
. minister. For they of whom I speak, are they who have 
not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time 
manifested myself unto them. ButI have received a com- 
mandment of the Father, that I shall go unto them, and 
that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among 
my sheep, that there may be one fold, and one shepherd; 
therefore I go'to shew myself unto them. And I com- 
mand you that ye shall write these sayings, after I am 
gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they 
who have seen me, and been with me in my ministry, do 
not ask the Father in my name, that they may receive a 
knowledge of you by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other 
tribes whom they know nat of, that these sayings which 
ye shall write, shall be kept, and shall be manifested unto 
the Gentiles, that through the fullness of the Gentiles, the 
remnant of their seed who shall be scattered forth upon 
the face of the carth, because of their.unbelief, may be 
brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their 
Redeemer. And then will I gather them in from the four 
quarters of the earth; and then will I fulfil the covenant. 
which the Father hath made unto all the people of the 
house of Israel.. And blessed are the Gentiles, because 
of their belief in me, in and of the Holy Ghost, which wit- 
ness unto them of me andof the Father. Behold, because 
of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the 
unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall 
the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fullness of these 
things shall be made known unto them. But wo, saith 
the Father, unto the unbelieving of the Gentiles, for not- 
withstanding they have come forth upon the face of this 
land, and have scattered my people, who are of the house 
of Israel; and my people who are of the house of Israel, 
have been cast out from among them, and have been trod- 
den under feet by them; and because of the mercies of 
the Father unto the Gentiles, and also the judgments of 
the Father upon my people, who are of the house of Israel, 


474: BOOK OF. NEPHI. 


verily, verily, I say unto you, that after all this, and I hare 
caused my people who are of the house of Israel, to be 
smitten, ad to be afflicted, and to be slain, and to bẹ -cast 
out from among them, and to become hated by them, and 
to become a hiss and a by-word among them. And thus 
commandeth the Father that I should say unts you at that 
day when the Gentiles shall sin against my gospel, and 
shall be lifted up in the pride of their hearts above all 
nations, and above all the people of the whole earth, and 
shall be filled with all manner of lyings, and of deceits, 
and of mischiefs, and all manner of. hypocrisy, and mur- 
ders, and priestcraftd, and whoredoma, and of secret abom- 
inations; and if they shall do all those things, and shall 
reject the fullness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father, 
I will bring the fullness of my gospel from among them; 
_and then will I remember my covenant which I have made 
unto my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my 
ospel unto them; and I will shew unto thee, O house of 
srael, that the Gentilea shall not have power over you, 
but I will remember my covenant unto you, O house of 
Israel, and ye shall come unto the knowledge of the full- 
ness of my gospel. But if the Gentiles will repent, and 
roturn unto me, saith the Father, behold, they shall be 
numbered among my people, O house of Israel; and I will 
not suffer my people, who are of the house of Israel, to go 
through among them, and tread them down, saith the 
Father. But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken 
unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my 
people, O house of Israel, that they shall go through 
among them, and shall tread them down, ant they shall 
be as salt that hath lost its savour, which is thenceforth 
good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden 
under foot of my people, O house of Israel. Verily, verily, 
Isay unto you, thus hath the Father commanded me, that 
I should give unto this people this land for their inherit- 
ance. And when the words of the prophet Isaiah shall 
be fulfilled, which say, thy watchmen shall lift up the 
voice; with the voice together shall they sing, for they 
shall seo eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion. 
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of 
Jerusalem, for the Lord hath comforted his people, he 
hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord hath made bere his 
holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends oi 
the earth shall see the salvation of God. 


BOOK OF NEPHI, 475 
‘CHAPTER VIII. 


BEHOLD, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken 
these words, he looked pound about again on the mufitade, 
and he said unto them, behold, my time is at hand. ¥ I per- 
ceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my 
words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto 
you at this time; therefore, go ye unto your homes, and 
pee upon the things which I have said, and ask of. the 
ather, in my name, that ye may understand; and prepare 
your minds for the morrow, and I come unto you again, 
ut now I go unto the Father, and also to shew myself 
unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the 
Father, for he knoweth whither he hath taken them. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, 
he cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and 
beheld they were in tears, and did look steadfastly upon 
him, as if they would ask him to tarry a little longer with 
them. And lie mid unto them, behold, my bowels are 
filled with compassion towards you, have ye any that are 
sick among you, bring them hither. Have ye any that 
are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that 
are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any 
manner, bring them hither, and I will heal them, for I have 
compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy; 
for 1 perceive that ye desire that I should shew unto you 
what I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I 
see that your faith is sufficient, that I should heal you. . 

And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all 
the multitude, with one accord, did go forth, with their 
sick, and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their 
blind, and with their dumb, and with all they that were 
afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them evety one 
as they were brought forth unto him; and they did all, both 
they who had been healed, and they who were whole, bow 
down at his feet, and did worship him; and as many as 
could come, for the multitude, did kiss his feet, insomuch 
that they did bathe his feet with their tears. 

And it came to pass that he commanded that their little 
children should be brought. So they brought their little 
children and sat them down upon the ground round about 
him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave 
way till they had all been brought unto him. And it camé 
to pass that when they had all been brought, and Jesus 
stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they 
should kneel down upon the ground. And itcame to pass 
that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned 


476 BOOK OF N&PHI. 


within himself, and saith, Father, I am troubled because 
of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. 
And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt 
updn the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, 
and tite things which he prayed, cannot be written, and 
the multitude did bear record who heard him. And after 
this manner do they bear record; the eye hath never seen, 
neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous 
things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; 
and no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by 
any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great 
and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak ; 
and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls 
at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father. | 
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of 
praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy 
of the multitude, that they were overcome. And it came 
to pass that Jesus spake unto them, sad. bade them arise. 
And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them, 
blessed are ye because of your faith. And now behold, my 
joy is full. And when he had said these words, he wept, 
and the multitude bear record of it, and he took their little 
children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto 
the Father forthem. And when he had done this he wept 
egain, and he spake untd the multitude, and saith unto 
them, behold your little ones. And as they looked to be- 
hold, they cast their eyes towards-heaven, and they saw 
the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of 
heaven as it were, inthe midst of fire; and they came 
down and encircled those little ones about; and they were 
encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister 
unto them, and the multitude did see and hear, and bear 
record; and they know that their record is true, for they 
all of them did see and hear, every man for himeelf; and 
wey were in number about two thousand and five hundred 
souls; and they did consist of men, women and children. 
And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples 
that they should bring forth some bread and wine unto him. 
And while they were gone for bread and wine, he com- 
manded the multitude * they should sit themselves down 
upon the earth. And when the disciples had come with 
bread and wine, he took of the bread, and brake and bless- 
ed it; and he gave unto the disciples, and commanded that 
‘they should eat. And when they had eat, and were filled, 
he commanded that they should give unto the multitude. 
And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, he 


said unto the disciples, behold, there shall one be ordained 


-BOOK OF NEPHI. aT? 


among'you, and to him will I give power that he shall break 
.' bread, and bless it, and give it unto the pers of my church, 
- unto all those who shall believe and be baptized in my 
name, And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I 
have done, even as I have broken bread, and blessed it, 
and gave it unto you. And this shal] ye doin remembrance 
of my body, which I have shewn unto you. And it shall 
be a testimony unto the Father, that ye do always remem- 
be me. And if ye do always remember me, ye shall have 
my spirit to be with you. 

And it eame to pass that when he had said these words, 
he commanded his disciples that they should take of the 
-wine of the cup, and drink of it, and, that they should also 
give unto the multitude, that they might drink of it. And 
it came to pass that they did so, and did drink of it, and 
were filled; and they gave unto the multitude, and they 
did drink, and they were filled. And when the disciples 
had done this, Jesus said unto them, blessed are ye for this 
thing which ye have done, for this is fulfilling my command- 
ments, and this doth witness unto the Father that ye are 
. willing to do that which I have commanded you. And this 
shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in 
my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of my blood, 
which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the 
-Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do 
always remember me, ye shall have my spirit to be with 
you. And I give unto you a commandment that ye. shall 
do these things. And if ye shall always do these things, 
blessed are ye, for ye are built upon my rock. But whoso 
among you shall do more or less than these, are not built 
upon my rock, but ate built upon a sandy foundation: and 
when the rain descends, and the floods come, and the winds 
blow, and beat upon them, they shall fali, and the gates 
of hell are ready open to receive them; therefore blessed 
are ye if ye shall keep my commandments, which the 
Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, ye must watch and pray 
always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye are led 
away captive by him. And as I have prayed among you, 
even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who 
do repent and are baptized in my name. Behold 1 am the 
light; I have set an example for you. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these 
words unto Kis disciples, he turned again unto the multi- 
tude, and said unto them, behold, verily, verily I say unto 
you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye enter into 
temptation; for satan desireth to have you, that he may sift 


478 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


ou as wheat; therefore ye must always pray unto the 
„Father in my name; and:whatsoever ye shall ask the Fa- 
ther in my name, which ie right, believing that ye shall. 
receive, behold it shall be given unto you. Pray in gor 
families unto the Father, always in my name, that your 
wives and your children may be blessed. And behold, ye 
shall meet together oft, and ye shall not forbid any man 
from coming unto you when ye shall meet ogonie bat 
suffer them that they may come unto you, and forbid them 
not; but ye shall pray for them, and shall not cast them 
out; and if it so be that they come unto you oft, ye shall 
prey for them unto the Father, in my name; therefore 

old up your light that it may shine unto the world. Be- 
hold I am the light which ye shall hold up—that.whieh 
ye have seen me do. ' Behold ye see that I have prayed 
unto the Father, and ye all have witnessed; and ye see 
that I have aadd that none of you should go away, 
but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me, 
that ye might feel and see; even so shall ye do unto the 
world; and whosoever breaketh this commandment, suf- 
fereth himself to be led into temptation. 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken 
these words, he turned hia eyes again upon the disciples 
whom he had chosen, and said unto them, behold, verily, 
verily I say unto you, I give unto you another command- 
ment, and then I must go unto my Father, that I may ful- 
fil other commandments which he hath given me. And 
now behold, this is the commandment whick I give unto 
you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly, to partake 
of my flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall minis- 
ter it, for whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood 
unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; 
therefore if ye know that a man is unworthy to eat and 
drink of my flesh and blood, ye shall forbid him; never- 
theless ye shall not cast him out from among you, but 
ye shall minister unto him, and shall pray for him unto 
the Father, in my name, and if it so be that he repenteth, 
and is baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, enc 
shall minister unto him of my flesh and blood; but if he 
repent not, he shall not be numbered among my people, 
that he may not destroy my people, for behold I know my 
sheep, and they are numbered; nevertheless ye shall not 
. cast him out of your synagogues, or your places of worship, 
for unto such shall ye continue to minister; for ye know 
not but what they will return and repent, and come unto 
me with full purpose of heart, and I shall heal them, and 
ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them. 








BOCK OF NEPHI 429 


Therefore keep these sayings which Ihave commanded 
you, that ye come not under condemnation, for wo unto 
him whom the Father condemneth. And I give you these 
commandments, because of the disputations which have 
been among you. And blessed are ye if ye have no dis- 
putations among you. And now I go unto the Father, 
because it is expedient that I should go unto the Father, 
for your sakes, ` 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end 
of these sayings, he touched with his hand the disciples 
whom he had chosen, one by one, even until he had touch- 
ed. them all, and spake unto them as he touched them; and 
the multitude heard not the words which he spake, there- 
fore they did not bear record; but the disciples bear record 
that he gave them power to give the Holy Ghost. And L 
will shew. unto you hereafter that this record is true. 

_ And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched them 
all, there came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude, 
that they could not see Jesus. And while they were over- 
shadowed, he departed from them, and ascended into 
heaven. And the disciples saw and did bear record that he 
ascended again into heaven. 


oto 
CHAPTER IX. 


AND now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended 
into heaven, the multitude did. disperse, and every man did 
take his wife and his children, and did return to his own 
home. And it was noised abroad among the people im- 
mediately, before it was yet dark, that the multitude had 
seen Jesus, and that he had ministered unto them, and that 
he would also show himself on the morrow unto the multi- 
tude; yea, and even all the night it was noised abroad con- 
cerning Jesus; and insomuch did they send forth unto the 
people, that there were many, yea, an exceeding great num- 
ber did labor exceedipgly all that night, that they might be 
on the morrow in-the place where Jesus should shew him- 
self unto the multitude. - 

And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the mul- 
titude was gathered together, behold Nephi and his brother 
whom he had raised from the dead, whose name was Tim- 
othy, and also his son, whose name was Jonas, and aleo 
Mathoni, and Mathonihah, his brother, and Kumen, and 
Kumenonhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and Jonas, and 


480 BOOK OF NEFHI. 


Zedekiah, and Isaiah: now these were the names of the 
disciples whom Jesus had chosen. And it came to 
that they went forth and stood in the midst of the multi- 
tude. And behold, the multitude was so great, that they 
did cause that they should be separated into twelve bodies. 
And the twelve did teach the multitude, and behold, they 
did cause that the multitude should kneel down upon the 
face of the earth, and should pray unto the Father, in the 
name of Jesus. And the disciples did pray unto the Father 
also, in the name of Jesus. And it came to pass that they 
arose and ministered unto the people. And when they had 
ministered those same words which Jesus had. spoken—no- 
thing varying from the words which Jesus had spdken— 
behold, they knelt again, and prayed to the Father in the 
name of Jesus, and they did pray for that which they most 
desired; and they desired that the Holy Ghost should be 
given unto them. And when they had thus prayed, the 
went down unto the water’s edge, and the multitude fol- 
lowed them. And it came to pass that Nephi went down 
into the water, and was baptized. And he came up out 
of the water and began to baptize. And he baptized all 
those whom Jesushad chosen. And it came to pass when 
they were all baptized, and had come up out of the water, 
the Holy Ghost did fall i them, and they were filled 
with the Holy Ghost, and with fire. And behold, they 
were encircled about as if it were fire; and it came down 
from heaven, and the multitude did witness it, and do bear 
record; and angels did come down out of heaven, and did 
minister unto them. And it came to pass that while the 
angels were ministering unto the disciples, behold, Jesus 
came and stoad in the midst, and ministered unto them. 
And it came to pass that he spake unto the multitude, and 
commanded them that they should kneel down again upon 
the earth, and also that his disciples should kneel down 
apon the earth. And it came to pass that when, they had 
all knelt down upon the earth, he commanded his disciples 
that they should pray. And behold, they began te prey; 
and they did pray unto Jesus, calling him their Lord and 
their God. k 
And it came to pass that Jesus departed out of the midst 

of them, and went a little way off from them and bowed. 
himself to the earth, and he said, Father, I thank thee 
that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these wham I 
have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me, that 
I have chosen them out of the world. Father, I pray thee 
that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall 

elieve in their worde. Father, thou hast given them the 





BOOK OF NEPHI. 481 


Holy Ghost, because they believe in me, and thou seest 
that they believe in me, because thou hearest them, and 
they pray unto me; and they pray unto me because I am 
with them. And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, 
and also for all those who shall believe on their words, 
that they may believe in me, that E may be in them as 
thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one. 

And it came to pass, that when Jesus had thus prayed 
unto the Father, he came unto his disciples, and behold, 
they did still continue, without ceasing, to pray unto 
him; and they did not multiply many words, for it was 

iveri unto them what they should pray, and they were 
filled with desire. And it came to pass that Jesus blessed 
them, as they did pray unto him, and his countenance did 
smile upon them, and the light of his countenance did 
shine upon them, and behold they were as white as the 
countenance, and alsothe garments of Jesus; and behold 
the whitenees thereof did exceed all the whiteness, yea, 
even there could be nothing upon earth so white as the 
whiteness thereof. And Jesus said unto them, pray on; 
nevertheless they did not cease to pray. And he turned 
from them again, and went a little way off, and bowed 
himself to the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father, 
sayiug, Father, I thank thee that thou hast purified those 
whom I have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray 
for them, and also for them who shall believe on their 
’ words, that they may be purified: in me, through faith on 
their words, even as they are purified in me, Father I 
pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given 
me out of the world, because of their faith, that they may 
be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, 
art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in 
them. ` 

And when Jesus had spoken these words, he came again 
unto his disciples, and behold they did pray steadfastly, 
without ceasing, unto him; and he did smile upon them 
again; and behold they were white, even as Jesus. 

And it came to pass that he went again a little way off, 
and prayed unto the Father: and tongue cannot speak the 


words. which he prayed, neither can be written by man , 


the words which he prayed. And the multitude did hear, 
and do bear record, and their hearts were open, and the 
did understand in their hearts the words which he prayed, 
Nevertheless, so great and marvelous were the words which 
he prayed, that they cannot be written neither can they 
be uttered by man. R 


a BOOK OF NEPS. 


And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end 
of praying, he came again to the disciples. and said unto 
them, so great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; 
wherefore I could not shew unto them so great miracles, 
because of their unbelief. Verily I say unto you, there 
are none of them that have seen so great things as ye have 
seen; neither have they heard so great things as ye have 
heard. 

And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude 
that they should cease to pray, and algo his disciples. And 
he commanded them that they should not cease to pray in 
their hearts. And he commanded them that they should 
arise and stand up upon thejr feet. And they arose up 
and stood upon their feet. And it came to pass that 
he break bread again, and blessed it, and gave to the 
disciplesto eat. And when they had eaten he command- 
ed them that they should break bread, and give it unto 
the multitude. And when they had given unto the mul- 
titude, he also gave them wine to drink, and commanded 
them that they should give unto the multitude. Now there 
had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the disciples, 
neither by the multitude; but he truly gave unto them 
bread to eat, and also wine to drink; and he said unto 
them, he that eateth this bread, eateth of my body to his 
soul, and he that drinketh of this wine, drinketh of my 
blood to his soul, and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst, 
but shall be filled. Now when the multitude had all eaten 
and drunk, behold they were filled with the spirit, and 
they did cry out with one voice, and frre glory to Jesus, 
whom they both saw and heard. And it came to pase that 
when they had all given glory unto Jesus, he saith unto 
them, behold now I finish the commandment which the 
Father hath commanded me concerning this people who 
are a remnant of the house of Israel. To temem ber that 
I spake unto jois and said that when the words of Isaiah 
should be fulfilled, behold they are written, ye have them 
before you; therefore search them. And verily, verily I 
say unto you, that when they shall be fulfilled, then is the 
fuifilling of the covenant which the Father hath made 
unto his people. O house of Israel, then shall the rem- 
nants which shall be scattered abroad upon the face of the 
earth, be gathered in from the east, and from the west, and 
from the south, and from the north; and they shall be 
brought to the knowledge of the Lord their God, who hath 
redeemed them. And the Father hath commanded me 
that I should give unto you this land, for your inheritance. 
And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not repent, 


BOOK OF NEPHI., 483 


after the bleesing which they shall receive, after they have 
scattered my people, then shall ye who are-a remnant of 
the house of Jacob. go forth among them; and ye shall 
be in the midet of them, who shall be many; and ye shall. 
be among them, as a lion among the beasts of the forest, 
and as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he 
goeth through, both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, 
and none can deliver. Thy hand shall be lifted up upon 
thine adversaries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off. 
And I will gather my people.together, as a man gathereth 
his sheaves into the floor, for J will make my people with 
whom the Father hath covenanted, yea, I vil make thy 
horn iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass. And thou 
shalt beat in pieces many people; and I will consecrate 
their gain unto the Lord, and their substance unto the 
Lord of the whole earth. And behold, I am he who doeth 
it. And it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the 
sword of my justice shall hang over them at that day; 
and except they repent, it shall fall upon them, saith the 
Father, yea, even upon all the nations of the Gentiles. 
And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, 
© house of Israel. And behold, this people will I estab- 
lish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which 
I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a new Je- 
rusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst 
of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you. 
Behold, Iam he of whom Moses spake, saying, a prophet 
shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your bretha 
ren, like unto me, him’ shall ye hear in all things whatso- 
ever he shall say unto you. And it shall come to pass 
that every soul who will not hear that prophet, shall be 
cut off from among the people. Verily, I say unto you, 

ea; andali the prophets from Samuel, and those that fol- 
ow after, us.many as have spoken, have testified of me. 
And behold ye are the children of the prophets; and ye 
are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant 
which the Father made with your fathers, saying unto 
Abraham, and in thy seed, shall all the kindreds of the 
earth be blessed; the Father having raised me up unto 
you first, and sent me to bless you, in turning away every 
one of you from his iniquities; and this because ye are 
the children of the covenant. And after that ye were 
blessed, then fulfilleth the Father the covenant which he 
made with Abraham, saying, in thy seed shall all the 
kindreds of the earth be blessed, unto the pouring out of 
the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which 
blessing upon the Gentiles, shall make them mighty above 


484 BOOK OF NEPHIL 


all, unto the scattering of my people, O house of Ivtsel: 
and they shall be a scourge unto the people of thisland. 
Nevertheless, when they sball have received the fullness 
of my gospel, then if they sball harden their hearts against 
me, I will return their iniquities upon their own heads, 
saith the Father. And I will remember the covenant 
which I have made with my people, and I have covenanted 
. with them, that I would gather them together in mineown 
due time; that I would give unto them again the land of 
their fathers, for their inheritance, which is the lend of 
Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, 
saith the Father. 

And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when 
the fullness of my gospel shall be preached unto them, and 
they shail believe in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the Son 
of God, and shall pray unto the Fatherinmy name. Ther 
shall their watchmen lift up their voice; and with the 
voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to 
eye. Then will the Father gather them together again, 
and give unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inherit- 
ance. Then shall they break forth into joy—sing togeth- 
er ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the Father hath eom- 
forted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem. ‘The Father 
hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; 
and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of the 
Father; and the Father and I are one. And then shall be 
brought to pass that which is written, awake, awake again, 
and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful 
garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth there 
shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the 
unclean. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O 
Jerusalem; loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O 
captive daughter of Zion, For thus saith the Lord, ye have 
sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed with- 
out money. Verily, verily, I say unto you, that my people 
shall know my name; yea, in that day the shall know 
that I am he that doth speak. And then shall they say, 
how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that 
bringeth good tidings unto them, that publisheth peace: 
that bringeth good tidings unto them of good, that publish- 
eth salvation; that saith unto Zion, thy God reigneth! 
And then shall a cry go forth, depart ye, depart ye, go ye 
out from thence, touch not that whieh is unclean; go ye 
out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels 
of the Lord. For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by 
flight: for the Lord will go before you; and the God of 
Israel shall be your rearward. Behold, my servant shall 


‘BOOK OF NEPHI. 485 
deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled, and be 
very high. As many were astonished at thee; (his visage 
was 80 marred more than any man, and his form more than 
the sons of men,) so shall he sprinkle many nations; the 
kings shall shut their mouths at him, for that which had 
been told them shall they see; and that which they had 
not heard shall they consider. Verily, verily, I say unto 

ou, all these things shall surely come, even as the Father 

athcommanded me. Then shall this covenant which the 
Father hath covenanted with his people, be fulfilled; and 
then shall Jerusalem be inhabited again with my people,’ 
and it shall be the land of their inheritance. And verily, 
I say unto unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye may 
know the time when these things shall be about to take 
place, that I shall garnet in from their. long dispersion, my 
people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among 
them my Zion. And behold, this is the thing which 
I will give unto you for a sign, for verily I say unto you, 
that when these things which I declare unto you, and 
which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by 
the power of the Holy Ghost, which shall be given unto 
you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles, 
that they. may know concernipg this people who are a rem- 
nant of the house of Jacob, and concerning this my peo- 
ple who shall be scattered by them; verily, verily, I say 
unto you, when these things shall be made known unto 
them of the Father, and shal] come forth of the Father, 
from them unto you, for it is wisdom in the Father that 
they should be established in this land, and be set up as a 
free people by the power of the Father, that these things 
might come forth from them unto a remnant of your seed, 
that the covenant of the Father may be fulfilled which he 
hath covenented with his people, O house of Israel; there- 
fore, when these works, and the works which shall be 
hke among you hereafter, shall come forth from the 
Gentiles unto your seed, which shall dwindle in unbelief 
because of iniquity; for thus it behooveth the Father that 
it should come forth from the Gentiles, that he may shew 
forth his power unto the Gentiles, for this cause, that the 
Gentiles, if they will not harden their hearts, that they. 
may rẹpent and come unto me, and be baptized in my 
name, and know of the true points of my doctrine, that 
they may be numbered among my people, O house of Israel : 
aad’ when these things come to pass, that thy seed shall 
begin to know these things, it shall be a sign unto them, 
that they may know that ae work of the Father hath 


` 


486 . BOOK OF NEPHI. 


atrendy commenced vnto the fulfilling Jf the covenant 
whith he hath made unto the people who are of the house 
ofisrrel. And when that day shall come, it shall come to 
pass that kings ehall shut their mouths; for that which 
had not been told them shall they see; and that which 
they had not heurd shall they consider. For in that day, 
for ny sake shall the Father work a work, whieh shall be 
a grcat and a marvelous work among them; and there shall 
be ainong them those who will not believe it, although a man 
shall declare it unto them.’ But behold, the life of my ser- 
vant shall be in my hand; therefore they shall not hurt 
him, although he shall be marred because of them. Yeti 
will heal him, for I will shew unto them that my wisdom 
is greater than the cunning of the devil. Therefore it 
shall come to pags, that whosoever will not believe in my 
words, who am Jesus Christ, whom the Father shall cause 
him to bring forth unto the Gentiles, and shall give unto 
him power that he shall bring them forth unto the Gen- 
tiles, A shall be done even as Moses said.) they shall be 
cut off from among my people who are of the covenant; 
and my people who are a remnant of Jacob, shail be among 
the Gentiles. yea, in the midat of them, as a lion among 
the beasts of the forest, as a young lion among the flocks 
of sheep, who, if he go through both treadeth down, and 
teareth in pieces, and none can deliver. Their hand shall 
be lifted up upon their adversaries, and all their enemies 
shall be cut off. Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles, except 
they repent, for it shall come to pass in that day, saith the 
Father, that I will cut cff thy horses out of the midst of 
thee, and I will destroy thy chariots, and I will cut off the 
cities of thy land, and throw down all ast strong holds; 
and I will cut off witcherafts out of thy land, and thou 
‘shalt have no more soothsayers: thy graven images I will 
also cut off, and thy standing images out of the midst of 
thee; and thou shalt no more worship the works of thy 
hands; and I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of 
thee; so will I destroy thy cities. And it shal] come to 
pass that all lyings, and deceivings, and envyings, and 
etyifes, and priestcrafts dnd, whoredoms, shall be done 
away. For it shall come to pass saith the Father, that at 
that day, whosoever will not repent and come unto my be- 
loved Son, them will I cut off from among my people, O 
house of Israel; and I will execute vengeance and fi 


upon them, even as upon the heathen, such as they have 
not heard. 


BOOK OF NEPHI. 487 
CHAPTER X. ; 


Bor if they will repent, and hearken unto my words, 
and harden not their hearts, I will establish my church 
among them, and they shall come in unto the covenant, 
and be numbered among this the remnant of: Jacob, unto 
whom I have given this land for their inheritance, and 
they shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob; and also, 
as many of the house of Israel as shal] come, that they may 
build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem; 
and then shall they assist my people that they may be gath- 
ered in, whe are scattered upon all the face of the land, 
in unto the New Jerusalem. And then shall the power of 
heaven come down among them; and I also will be in the 
midst, and then shall the work of the Father commence, 
at that day even when this gospel shall be preached among 
the. remnant of this people. Verily, Isay unto you, at that 
day shall the work of the Father commence among all the 
dispersed of my people; vea, even the tribes which have 
been lost, which the Father hath led away out of Jerusa- 
lem. Yea, the work shall commence among all the dispers- 
ed of my people, with the Father, to prepare the way 
whereby they may come unto me, that they may call on 
the Father in my name; yea, and then shall the work com- 
mence, with the Father, among all nations, in preparing 
the way whereby his people may be gathered home to the 
land of their inheritance. And they shall go out from all 
nations; and they shall not go out in haste, nor go b 
flight; for I will go before them, saith the Father, and 
will be theirrearward. And then shall that which is writ- 
ten come to pass. Sing, O barren, thou that didst not 
bear; brenk forth into singing, and cry aloud, thou that 
didst not travail with child; for more are the children of 
the desolate than the children. of the married wife, saith 
the Lord. Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them 
stretch forth the curtains of thy habitations; spare: not, 
lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes; for thou 
shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and 
thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate 
cities to be inhabited. Fear not; for thou shalt not be 
ashamed; neither be thou confounded; for thou shalt not be 
put to shame; for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, 
and shalt not remember the reproach of thy youth, and 
shalt not remembcr the reproach of thy widowhood any 
more. For thy maker, thy husband, the Lord of hosts is 
his name; and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; the 
God of the whole earth shall he be called. For the Lord 


488 BOOK OF NEPHI. 

hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, 
and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith th 
God. For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with 
great mercies will I gather thee. In a little wrath I hid 
my face from thee for a moment; but with everlasting 
kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord th 
Redeemer. For this, the waters of Noah unto me, for as 
have sworn that the watersof Noah should no more go over 
the earth, so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with 
thee. For the mountains shall depart and the hills be re- 
moved; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither 
shall the covenant of my people be removed, saith the Lord 
that hath mercy on thee. 

O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted! 
behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy 
foundations with sapphires. And I will make thy win- 
dows of agates, and thy gates, of carbuncles, and all thy 
borders of pleasant stonea. And all thy children shall be 
taught of the Lord; and great shall be the’ peace-of thy 
children. In righteousness shalt thou be established, thou 
shalt be far from oppression; for thou shalt not fear, and 
from terror; for it shall not come near thee. Behold, they 
shall surely gather together against thee, not by me; wha- 
soever shall ather together against thee shall fall for thy 
sake. Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the 
coals in the fire; and that bringeth forth an instrument for 
his work; and I have created the waster to destroy. No 
weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and 
every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou 
shalt condemn. This isthe heritage of the servants of the 
Lord, and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. 
And now behold I say unto you, that ye had ought to 
search these things. Yea, a commandment I give unto 
you, that ye search these things diligently; for great are 
the words of Isaiah. For surely he spake as touching all 
things concerning my people which are of the house of 
Israel; therefore it must needs be that he must, speak 
aleo to the Gentiles. And all things that he spake, hath 
been, and shall be, even according to the words which he 
spake. Therefore give heed to my words, write the things 
which I have told you; and according to the time and 
the will of the Father, they shall go forth unto the Gen- 
tiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words, and 
repenteth, and is baptized, the same shall be saved.— 
Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of 
these things, 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said these 


BOOK OF NEPHI. ; 489 


words, he said unto them again, after he had expounded 
all the scriptures unto them which they had received, he | 
said unto them, behold, other scriptures I would that ye 
should write, that ye have not. ‘And it came to pass that 

he said unto Nephi, bring forth the record which ye have 

kept. And when Nephi had brought forth the records, 
and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them, and 

said‘ verily, I say unto you, I commanded my servant Sam- 

uel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, 

that at the day that the Father should glorify his name in 

me, that there were many saints who should arise from 

the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minis- 

ter unto them. And he said unto them, were it not so? 

And his disciples answered him and said, yea, Lord, Sam- 

uel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were 

all fulfilled. And Jesus said unto them; how be it that ye 

have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and 

appear unte many, and did minister unto them? And it 

came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not 

been written. Andit came to pass that Jesus commanded 

that it should be written; therefore it was written according 

as he commanded. 


21 o— 


CHAPTER XI. 


AND now it came to pass that when Jesus had expound- 
ed all the scriptures in one, which they had written, he 
commanded them that they should teach the things which 
he had expounded unto them. And it came to pass that 
he commanded them that they should write the words 
which the Father had given unto Malachi, which he should 
tell unto them. And it came to pass that after they were 
written, he expounded them. And these are the words 
which he did tell unto them, saying, thus said the Father 
unto Malachi, behold, I will send my messenger, and he 
shall a ak the way before me, and the Lord, whom ye 
seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messen- 
ger of the covenant, whom ye delight in; behold, he shall 
come, saith the Lord of hosts. But who may abide the day 
of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth ? 
for he is like a refiner’s fire, and like fuller’s soap. And 
he shall sit as a refiner and purifyer of silver; and he shall 
purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, 
that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteous- 


490 BOOK OF NEPHI, 


ness. Then shail the offering of Judeh and Jerusalem be 
p oasa: unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and asin 
rmer years. And I will come near to you to judgments 
and I will bea swift witness‘against the sorcerers, and 
against the adulterers,and against false swearers, and against 
those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, 
and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger, and 
fear not me, saith the Lord of hosts. For I am the Lord, 
I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. 

Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away 
from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return 
unto me, and I will return unto, you, saith the Lord of 
hosts. But ye said, wherein shall we return? 

Will aman rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye 
say, wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offer- 
ings. Ye are curscd with a curse, for ye have robbed me, 
even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the 
storehouse, that there may be meat in my house, and prove 
me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not 
open his the windows of heaven, and pour you out a bless- 
ing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And 
I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not 
destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine 
cast her fruit before the time in the fields, saith the Lord 
of hosts. And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye 
shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts. 

Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. 
Yet ye say, what have we spoken against thee? Ye have 
said, itis vain to serve God, and what doth it profit that we 
have kept his ordinances, and that we have walked moura- 
fully before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the proud 
happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, 
them that tempt God are even delivered. 

Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to 
another, and the Lord hearkened, and heard; and a book 
of remembrance was written before him for them that feared 
the Lord, and that thought upon hisname. And they shall 
be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make 
up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his 
own son that serveth him. Then shall ye return and dis- 
cern between the righteous and the wicked, between him 
that serveth God and him that serveth him not. For behold, 
the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the 
proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and 
the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of 
hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 

But unto you that fear my name, shall the Son of right- 





BOOK OF NEPHI. 491 


eousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go 
forth and grow up as calves in the stall. And ye shall tread 
down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles 
of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord 
of hosts. Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which 
I commanded unto ins in Horeb for all Israel, -with the 
statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah, 
the prohet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day 
of the.Lord; and he shall turn the heart of the fathers to 
the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, 
lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. , 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these 
things, he expounded them unto the multitude, and he did 
expound all things unto them, both great and small. And 
he saith, these scriptures which ye had not with you, the 
Father commanded that I should give unto you, for it was 
wisdom in him that they should be given unto future gen- 
- erations. And he did expound all things, even from the 
beginning until the time that he should come in his glory; 
yea, even all things which should come.upon the face of 
- the earth, even until the elements should melt with fervent 
heat, and the earth should be wrapt together as a scroll, and 
` the heayens and the earth should pass away; and even unto 

the great and last day, when all people, and all kindreds, 
and all nations and tongues shall stand before God, to be 
judged of their works, whether they be good or whether 
they be evil; if they be good, to the resurrection of ever- 
lasting life; and if they be evil, to the resurrection of dam- 
nation, being on a parallel, the one on the one hand, and 
the other on the other hand, according to the mercy, and 
the justice, and the holiness which is in Christ, who was 
before the world began. _ 


— 
CHAPTER XII. 


Anp now there cannot be written in this book, even a 
hundredth part of the things which Jesus did truly teach 
unto the people; but behold the plates of Nephi do contain 
the more part of the things which he taught the people; and 
these things have I written, which are a lesser part of the 
things which he taught the people; and I have written them 
to the intent that they may be brought again unto this peo- 

le, from the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus 
ath spoken. And when they shall have received thie, 


492 BOOK GF REPHI 


which is expedient that they should have first, to try their 
faith, and if it shali so he that they shall believe these 
things, then shall the greater things be made manifest uato 
them. And if itso be that they will not believe these 
things, then shall the greater things be withheld from them, 
unto their condemnation. Behold I were about to write 
them all which were engraven upon the plates of Nephi, 
but the Lord forbid it, saying, I will try the faith of my 
people; therefore I, Mormon, do write the things which 

ave been commanded me of the Lord. And now I, Mor- 
mon, make an end of my sayings, and proceed to write the 
things which have been commanded me; therefore I would 
that ye should behold that the Lord truly did teach the 
people, for the space of three days; and after that, he did 
shew himeelf unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and 
bless it, and give it unto them. 

And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto 
the children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, 
and he did loose their tongues, and they did speak unto 
their fathers great and marvelous things, even greater than 
he had revealed unto the people, and loosed their tongues 
that they could utter. And it came to pass that after he 
had ascended into heaven the second time, that he shewed 
himself unto them, and had gone unto the Father, after 
having healed all theír sick, and their lame, and opened 
the eyes of their blind, and unstopped the ears of the deaf, 
and even had done all manner of cures among them, and 
raised a man from the dead, and had shewn forth his power 
unto them, and had ascended unto the Father, behold, it 
came to pass on the morrow, that the multitude gathered 
themselves together, and they both saw and heard these 
children; yea, even babes did open their mouths, and ut- 
ter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter 
were forbidden, that there should not any man write them. 
And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jeaus had cho- 
sen, began from that time forth to baptize and to teach as 
many as did come unto them: and as many as were b 
tized in the name of Jesus were filled with the Holy Ghoat. 
And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, 
which are nof lawful to be written: and they taught, and 
did minister one to another; and they had all things com- 
mon among them, every man dealing justly, one with 
another. And it came to pass that they did do all things, 
even as Jesus had commanded them. And they who were 
Baptized in the name of Jesus, were called the church of 

rist, 

_ And it came to pass that as the disciples of Jesus were 





BOOR OF NEFul, 493 


umeying and were preaching the things which they 
ad both heard and seen, and were baptizing in the name 
of Jeans, it came to pass that the disciples were gathered 
together, and were united in mighty prayer and fasting. 
And Jesus again shewed himself unto them, for they were 
praying unto the Father, in his name; and Jesus came and 
stoodia the midst of them, and saith unto them, what will 
ge ar I shall give unto you; and they said unto him, 
rd, we will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby 
we shall cail this church; for there are disputations amon 
the people concerning thie matter. And the Lord sai 
unto them, verily, ver.ly I say unto you, why is it that the 
ple should murmur and dispute because of this thing? 
have they not read the scriptures, which say ye must take 
upon you the name of Christ, which is my name? for by 
this name shal! ye be called at the last aay and whoso 
taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end, the 
same shall be saved at the last day; therefore, whatsoever 
ye shail do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall 
call the church in my name; and ye shall call upon the 
Father in my name, that he will bless the church for my 
sake; and how be it my church, save it be ealled in m 
name? for if a church be called in Moses’ name, then it 
be Moses’ church; or if it be called in the name of a man, 
then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my 
name, then it is my church, if it so be that they are built 
upon my gospel. Verily, I say unto you, that ye are built 
upon my gospel; therefore ye shall call whatsoever things 
ye do callin my name; therefore if ye call upon the Father, 
for the church, if it be in my name, the Father will hear 
you; and if it so be that the church is built upon my gos- 
el, then will the Father shew forth his owt works in it; 
ut if it be not built upon my gospel, and is built upon the 
works of men, or upon the works of the devil, verily I say 
unto you, they have joy in their works for a season, and 
by and by the end cometh, and they are hewn down and 
cast into the fire, from whence there is no return; for their 
works do follow them, for it is because of their works that 
they are hewn down; therefore remember the things that 
I have told you. Behold I have given unto you my gospel, 
and this is the gospel which I have given unto you, that I 
came into the world to do the will of my Father, because 
my Father sent me; and my Father sent me that I might 
be lifted up upon the cross; and after that I hed been 
lifted up upon the cross, I might draw all men unto me; 
that asi have been lifted PA y men, even so should men 


494 BOOK OF NEPHI, 


be lifted up by the Father, to stand before me, to be 
judged of their works, whether they be good or whether 
they be evil; and for this cause have I been lifted up; 
therefore, according to the power of the Father, I will 
draw all men unto me, that they may be judged according 
to their works. And it shall come to pass, that whoso re- 

enteth and is baptized in my name, shall be filled; and if 
ke endureth to the end, hehold, him will I hold guiltless 
before my Father, at that day when I shall stand to judge 
the world. And he that endureth not unto the end, the 
same is he that is also hewn down and cast into the fire, 
from wheneo they can no more rturn, because: of the 
justice of the Father; and this is the word which he hath - 

iven unto the children of men. And for this cause he 
falflleth the words which he hath given, and he lieth not, 
but fulfilleth all his words; and no unclean thing can enter 
into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest, 
save it be those who have'washed their garments in m 
blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all 
their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end. Now this 
is the commandment; repent, all ye ends of the earth, and 
come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may 
be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye 
may stand spotless before me at the last day. Verily, 
verily I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye know the 
things that ye must do in my church; for the works 
which ye have seen me do, that shall ye also do; for that 
which ye have seen me dv, even that shall ye do; therefore 
if ye do these things, blessed are ye, for ye shall be lifted 
up at the last day. 


oto 


CHAPTER XIII. 


Writs the things which ye have seen and heard, save 
it be those which are forbidden; write the works of this 
people, which shall be even as hath been written of that 
which hath been; for behold, out of the books which have 
been written, arid which shall be written, shall this peo- 
ple be judged, for by them shall their works be known 
unto men. And behold, all things are written by the 
Father; therefore out of the books which shall be written, 
ehall the world be judged. And know ye that ye shall 
be judges of this people, according to the judgment which 
T shall give unto you, which shall be just; therefore what 


BOOK OF NEPHI. ANP 


manner of men had ye ought to be? Verily I say unte 
you, even as I am. And now Igo unto the Father. And 
verily I gay unto you, whatsoever things ye shall ask the 
Father, in my name, it shall be given unto you; therefore 
ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened 
unto you; for he that asketh, receiveth, and unto him that 
knocketh, it shall be opened. And now behold, my joy 
is great, even unto fullness, because of yu, and also this 
generation; yea, and even the Father rejoiceth, and also 
all the holy angels, because of you and this generation; 
for none of them are Jost. Behold, I would that ye should 
understand; for I mean them who are now alive, of this 
A „and none of them are lost; and in them I have 
ullness of joy. But behold, it sorroweth me because of 
the fourth generation from this generation, for they are 
led away reer by him, even as was the son of perdition; 
for they will sell me for silver, and for gold, and for that 
which moth doth corrupt, and which thieves can break 
through and steal. And in that day will I visit them, 
even in turning their works upon their own heads., 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these 
sayings, he saith unto his disciples, enter ye in at the 
straight gate: for straight is the gate and narrow is the 
way that leads to life, and few there be that find it, but 
wide is the gate, and broad the way which leads to death, 
and many there’ be who travel erin. until the night 
cometh, wherein no man can work. 

And it came to pass when Jesus had said these words, 
he spake unto his disciplés, one by one, saying unto them, 
what isit that ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the 
Father? And, they all spake, save it were three, we de- 
sire that after we have lived unto the age of man, that our 
ministry, wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, 
that we may speedily come unto thee, in thy kingdom. 
And he said unto them, blessed are ye, because ye de- 
sired this thing of me; therefore after that ye are seventy 
and two years old, ye shall come unto me in my kingdom, 
and with me ye shall findrest. And when he had spoken 
unto them, he turned himself unto the three, and said 
unto them, what will ye that I should do unto you, when 
I am gone unto the Father? And they sorrowed in their 
hearts, for they durst not speak unto him the thing which 
they desired. And he said unto them, behold I know 
your thoughts, and ye haye desired the thing which John, 
my beloved, who was with me in my ministry, before that 
I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of me; therefore more 
blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death, but ye 


496 BOOK OF NEPI. 


shall live to behold all the doings of the Father, unto the 
children of men, even until all things shall be fullfiled, ac- 
cording to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my 
glory, with the powers of heaven; and ye shall never 
endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in my 

lory, ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, 

rom mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be bless- 
ed in the kingdom of ay Father. And again, ye shall not 
have pain while ye shall dwell in the flesh, neither sorrow, 
gave it be for the sins of the world; and all this will I do 
because of the thing which ye have desired of me, for ye 
have desired that ye might bring the souls of men unto 
me, while the world shall stand; and for this cause ye 
shall have fullness of joy; and ye shall sit down in the 
kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be full, even 
as the Father hath given me fullness of joy; and ye shall 
be even as I am, and I am even gs the Father; and the 
Father and I are one; and the Holy Ghost beareth record 
of the Father and me; and the Father giveth the Holy 
Ghost unto the children of men, because of me. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these 
words, he touched every one of them with his finger, save 
it were the three who were to tarry, and then he departed. 
And behold, the heavens were opened, and they were 
caught up into heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable 
things. And it was forbidden them that they should utter; 
neither was it given unto them power that they could utter 
the things which they saw and heard; and whether they 
were in the body or out of the body, they could not tell; 
for it did seem unto them like a transfiguration of them, 
that they were changed from thie body of flesh, into an 
immortal state, that they could behold the things of God, 
But it came to pass that they did again minister upon the 
face of the earth; nevertheless they did not minister of 
the things which they had heard and seen, because of the 
commandment which was given them in heaven. And 
now whether they weré mortal or immortal, from the day 
of their transfiguration, 1 know not; but this much I know, 
according to the record which hath been given, they did 
go forth upon the face of the land, and did minister unto 
all the people, uniting as many to the church as would 
believe in their preaching; baptizing them; and as many 
as were baptized, did receive the Holy Ghost; and they 
were cast into prison by them who did not belong to the 
church.. And the prisons could not hold them, for they 
Were rent in twain, and they were cast down into the 
earth. But they did smite the earth with the word of 








BOOK OF NEPHI. 497 


. God, insomuch that by his power they were delivered out 
of the depths of the earth; and therefore they. could not 
dig pits sufficient to hold them, And thrice they were 
cast into a furnace, and received no harm. And twice 
were they cast into a den of wild beasts; and behold they 
did play with the beasts, as a child with a suckling lamb, 
and received no harm. And it came to pass that thus the 
did go forth among all the people of Nephi, and did preac 
the gospel of Christ unto all people upon the face of the 
land; and they were converted unto the Lord, and were 
united unto the church of Christ, and thus the people of 
that generation were blessed, according to the word of 
Jesus. - And now I, Mormon, make an end of speaking 
concerning these things, for a time. Behold, I was about 
to write the'names -of those who were never to taste of 
death; but the Lord forbade, therefore I write them not, 
for they are hid from the world. But behold I have seen 
them, and they have ministed unto me; and behold they 
will be among the Gentilés,.and the Gentiles knoweth 
them not. They will also be among the Jews, and the 
Jews shall‘know them not. 

And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fitin 
his wisdom, that they shall minister unto all the scattered 
tribes of Israel, and unto all nations, kindreds, tongues 
and people, and shall bring out of them unto Jesus many 
souls, that their desire may be fulfilled, and also because 
of the convincing power of God which is in them; and 
they are as the angels of God and if they shall pray unto 
the Father in the name of Jesus they can shew themselves 

“unto whatsoever man it seemeth them good;’ therefore 

reat and marvelous works shall be wrought by them, be- 
ore the great and coming day, when all people must sure- 
ly stand before the judgment seat of Christ; yea even 
among the Gentiles shall there be a great and marvelous 
work wrought by them, before that judgment day. And 
if ye had all the scriptures which give an account of all 
the marvelous works of Christ, ye would, according to the ' 

. words of Christ, know that these things must surely come. 

And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the words 

of Jesus, and also to them whom he hath chosen and sent 

among them, for whoso receiveth not the words of Jesus, 

and the words of those whom he hath sent, receiveth not 

him; and therefore he will not receive them at the last 

day; and it would be better for them if they had not been 

born. For do ye suppose that ye can get rid of the jus- 

tice of an offended. God, who hath been trampled under 
4Q* 


496 BOOK OF NEPNI. 


shall live to behold all the doings of the Father, unto the 
children of men, even until all inge shall be fullfiled, ac- 
eording to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my 
glory, with the powers of heaven; and ye shall never 
endure the pans of death; but when I shall come in my 
glory, ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, 

rom mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be bless- 
ed in the kingdom of ay Father. And again, ye shall not 
have pain while ye shall dwell in the flesh, neither sorrow, 
gave it bo for the sins of the world; and all this will I do 
because of the thing which ye have desired of me, for ye 
have desired that ye might bring the souls of men unto 
me, while the wala shall stand; and for this cause g 
shall have fullness of joy; and ye shall sit down in the 
kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be full, even 
as the Father hath given me fullness of joy; and ye shall 
be even as I am, and I am even gs the Father; and the 
Father and I are one; and the Holy Ghost beareth record 
of the Father and me; and the Father giveth the Holy 
Ghost unto the children of men, because of me. 

And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these 
words, he touched every one of them with his finger, save 
it were the three who were to tarry, and then he departed. 
And behold, the heavens were opened, and they were 
caught up into heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable 
things. And it was forbidden them that they should atter; 
neither was it given unto them power that they could utter 
the things which they saw and heard; and whether th 
were in the body or out of the body, they could not tell, 
for it did seem unto them like a transfiguration of them, 
that they were changed from this body of: flesh, into an 
immortal state, that they could behold the things of God. 
But it came to pass that they did again minister upon the 
face of the earth; nevertheless they did not minister of 
the things which they had heard and seen, because of the 
commandment which was given them in heaven. And 
now whether they were mortal or immortal, from the day 
of their transfiguration, 1 know not; but this much I know, 
according to the record which hath been given, they did 
go forth upon the face of the land, and did minister unto 
all the people, uniting as many to the church as would 
believe in their preaching; baptizing them; and as many 
as were baptized, did receive the Holy Ghost; and they 
were cast into prison by them who did not belong to the 
church.. And the prisons could not hold them, for they 
were rent in twain, and they were cast down into the 
earth. But they did smite the earth with the word of 


BOOK OF NEFHI 497 


God, insomuch that by his power they were delivered out 
of the depths of the earth; and therefore they. could not 
dig pits sufficient to hold them, And thrice they were 
cast into a furnace, and received no harm. And twice 
were they cast.into a den of wild beasts; and behold they 
did play with the beasts, as a child with a suckling lamb, 
and received no harm. ' And it came to pass that thus the 
did go forth among all the people of Nepli, and did preac 
the gospel of Chriat unto all people upon the face of the 
land; and they were converted unto the Lord, and were 
united unto the church of Christ, and thus the people of 
that generation weve blessed, according to the word of 
Jesus. - And now I, Mormon, make an end of speaking 
eoncerning these things, fora time. Behold, I was about 
to write the'names -of those who were never to taste of 
death; but the Lerd forbade, therefore I write them not, 
for they are hid from the world. But behold I have seen 
them, and they have ministed unto me; and behold the 
will be among the Gentilés,-and the Gentiles knowet. 
them not. They will also be among the Jews, and the 
Jews shall‘know them not. 

And it shall come to pass, when'the Lord seeth fitin 
his wisdom, that they shall minister unto all the scattered 
tribes of Israel, and unto all nations, kindreds, tongues 
and people, and shall bring out of them unto Jesus many 
souls, that their desire may be fulfilled, and also because 
of the convincing power of God which is in them; and 
they are as the angels of God and if they shall pray unto 
the Father in the name of Jesus they can shew themselves 
unto whatsoever man it seemeth them good;' therefore 
— and marvelous works shall be wrought by them, be- 

ore the great and coming day, when all people must sure- 
ly stand before the judgment seat of Christ; yea even 
among the Gentiles shall there be a great and marvelous 
work wrought by them, before that judgment day. And 
if ye had all the scriptures which give an decount of all 
the marvelous works of Christ, ye would, according to the ' 
words of Christ, know that thesethings must surely come. 
And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the words 
of Jesus, and also to them whom he hath chosen and sent 
among them, for whoso receiveth not the words of Jesus, 
and the words of those whom he hath sent, receiveth not 
him; and therefore he will not receive them at the last 
day; and it would be better for them if they had not been 
born. For do ye suppose that ye can get rid of the jus- 
tice of an offended God, who hath been trampled under 
42* ; 


406- BOOK OF NEPHI 


feet of men, thet thereby salvation might eome? And 
now behold, as I spake concerning those whom the Lord 
had chosen, yea, even three who were caught up into the 
heavens, that I knew not whether they were cleansed from 
mortality to immortality. But behold, since I wrote, I 
have inquired of the Lord, and he hath made it manifest 
unto me, that there must needs be a change wrought upon 
their Lodies, or else it needs be that they must taste of 
death; therefore that they might not taste of death, there 
was a change wrought upon their bodies, that they might 
not suffer pain nor sorrow, save it were for the sins of the 
world. Now this change wae not equal to that which 
should take place at the last day’; but there was a change 
wrought upon them, insomuch that satan could have no 
power over them, that he could not tempt them, and they 
were sanctified in the flesh, that they were holy, and that 
the powers of the earth could not hold them; and in this 
atate they were to remain until the judgment day of Christ; 
and at that ve they were to receive a — change, and 
to be received into the kingdom of the Father to go no 
more out, but to dwell with God eternally in the heavens, 
And now behold, I say unto you, that when the Lord shall 
see fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come unto 
the Gentiles, according to his word, then ye may know 
that the covenant which the Father hath made with the 
children of Israel, concerning their restoration to the 
lands of their inheritance, is already beginning to be ful- 
filled; and ye may know that the words of the Lord, which 
have been spoken by the holy prophets, shall be fulfilled; 
and ye need not say that the Lord delays his coming unto 
the children of Israel; and ye need not imagine in your 
hearts that the words which have been spoken are vain, 
for behold, the Lord will remember his covenant which 
he hath made unto his people of the house of Israel. And 
when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you, 
then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the 
Lord, for the sword of his justice is in his right hand, 
and behold at that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings, he 
will cause that it shall oon overtake you. Wo unto him 
that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo unto him 

that shall deny the Christ and his works; yea, wo unto 

him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord, and that 

shall say, the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or by 

Prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by 

the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, and wo unto him that 

shall say at that day, that there can be no miracle wrought 

by Jesus Christ, to get gain; for he that doeth this, shall 


eo — — - * 


BOOK OF NEPHI 406 


become like unto the son of perdition, for whom there 
was no mercy, according to the word of Christ. Yea, and 
ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game of 
the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Iaracl, 
for behold the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, 
and he will do unto them according to that which he hath 
sworn; therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the 
right hand of the Lord unto the left, that he may not exe- 
cute judgment unto the fulfilling'of the covenant which 
he hath made unto the house of Israel. 


eee Cam 
CHAPTER XIV. 


Hearxken, O, ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus 
Christ, the Son of the living God, which he hath com- 
manded me that I should speak concerning you, for, be- 
hold he commandeth me that I should write saying, turn, 
all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways, and repent of 
your evil doings, of your lyings and deceivings, and of 
your whoredoms, and of your secret abominations, and 
your idolatries, and of your murders, and your priestcralts, 
and your envyings, and your strifes, and from all your 
wickedness and abominations, and come unto me, and be 
baptized in my name, that ye may receive a remission of 

our sins, and be filled withthe Holy Ghost, that ye may 


_be numbered with my people, who are of the house of Is- 


raol. ' 
— æ + 


THE BOOK OF NEPHI, WHO IS THE SON OF 
NEPHI, ONE OF THE DISCIPLES OF 
JESUS CHRIST. 

CHAPTER L 
An account of the people of Nephi, according to his record. 
ANp it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year 


passed away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the 
disciples of Jesus had formed a church of Christ in all the 


5G BOOK OF NEPHI 


lands raund abont. And as many as did come unto them, 
and did truly repent of their sins, were baptized in the 
name of Jesus; and they did also receive the Holy Ghost. 

And it came to pass in the thirty and: sixth year, the 
people were all converted unto the Lord, upon ail the face 
of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were 
no contentions and disputations among them, and eve 
man did deal justly one with another; and they had all 
thinge common among them, therefore there were not rich 
and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and 
partakers of the heavenly gift. 

And it came to pass that the thisty and seventh year 
passed away also, and thcre still continued to be peace in 
the land. And there were great and marvellous works 
wrought by the disciples of Jesus, insomuch that thay did 
heal the sick, and raise the dead, and cause the lame to 
walk, and the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to 
hear; and al] manner of miracles did they work among 
the children of men; and in nothing did they work mira- 
cles save it were in the name of Jesus. And thus did the 
thirty and eighth year pass away, and also the thirty and 
ninth, and the forty and firat, and the forty and second; 
yea, even until forty and nine years had passed away, and 
also the fifty and first, and the fifty and second; yea, and 
even until fifty and nine years had passed away; and the 
Lord did prosper them exceedingly, in the land: yea, in- 
somuch that they did fill cities again where there had been 
cities burned; yea, even that great city Zarahemla did etd 
cause to be builtagain. But there were many cities whic 
had been synk, and waters came up in the stead thereof; 
therefore these cities could not be renewed. : 

And now behold it came to pass that the people of Ne- 
phi did wax strong, and did multiply exceeding fast, and 

ecame an exceeding fair and delightsome — And 
they were married, and given in marriage, and were blessed 
according to the multitude of the promises which the Lord 
had made unto them. And they did not walk any more 
after the performances and ordinances of the law of Moses, 
but they did walk after the commandments which they 
had received from their Lord and their God, continuing in 
fasting and prayer, and in meeting together oft, both to 
pray and to hear the word of the Lord. And it came to 
pass that there was no contention among all the people, in 
all the land, but there were mighty miracles wrought 
among the disciples of Jesus. 

And it came to pass that the seventy and first year passed 
away, and also the seventy and second year; yea, and in 


BOOK OF NEPHI. 501 


fine, till the seventy and ninth year had passed sway; yea, 
even an hundred years had passed away, and the disciples 
of Jesus, whom he had chosen, had all gone to the paradise 
of God, save it were the three who should tarry; and there 
were other disciples ordained in their stead; and also many 
of that gencration which had passed away. And it came 
to pass that there was no contention in the land, because 
of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the 
people. And there were no envygngs, nor strifes, nor tu- 
mults, nor whoredoma, nor lyingg, nor murders, nor any 
manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not bea 
happier people among all the people who had been created 
by the hand of God; there were no robbers, nor murderers, 
neither were there Lamanites, or any manner of ites; but 
they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the 
kingdom of God; and how blessed were they, for the Lord 
did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were 
blessed and prospered, until an hundred and ten years had 
passed away; and the first generation from Christ had 
passed away, and there was no contention im all the land. 
And it came to pass that Nephi, he that kept this last 
record, — he kept it upon the plates of Nephi) died, and 
his son Amos kept it in his — ; and he kept it upon the 
plates of Nephi also; and he-kept it eighty and four years, 
and there was still peace in the land, save it were a small 
part of the people who had revolted from the church, and 
took upon them the name of Lamanites; therefore there 
began to be Lamanites again in the land. : 
And it came to pass that Amos died also, (and it wasan 
hundred and ninety and four years from the coming o 
Christ,) and his son Amos kept the record in his stead; and 
he also kept it apon the plates of Nephi; and it was also 
written in the book of Nephi, which is this book. And it 
came to pass that two hundred years had passed away, and 
the second generation had all passed away save it were a 
few. And now I, Mormon, woùld that ye should know 
that the people had multiplied, insomuch that they were 
spread upon all the face of the land, and that they had be- 
come exceeding rich, because of their prosperity in Christ. 
And now in this two hundred and first year, there began 
to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such 
as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine 
pearls, and of the fine things of the world. And from that 
time forth they did have their goods and their substance no 
more common among them, and they began to be divided 
into classes, and they began to build up churches unto 


502 BOOK OF NEPHI. 


themeelves, to get gain, and began to deny the true church 
of Christ. 
And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten 
ears had passed away, there were mapy churches in the 
lana: yea. there were many churches which professed to 
know the Christ, and yet they did deny the more parts of 
his gospel, insomuoh that they did receive all manner of 
wickedness, and did administer that whieh was sacred unto 
him to whom it had beep forbidden, because of unworthi- 
ness. And this church did multiply exceedingly, because 
of iniquity, and because’of the power of satan who did get 
hold upon their hearts. And again, there was another 
church which denied the Christ; and they did persecute 
the true church of .Christ, because of their humility, and 
their belief in Christ; and they did despise them, because 
of the many miracles which were wrought among them; 
therefore they did exercise power and authority over the 
‘ disciples of Jesus who did tarry with them, and they did 
cast them into prison; but by the power of the word of 
God, which was in them, the prisons were rent in twain, 
and they went forth doing mighty miracles among them. 
Nevertheless, and notwithstanding all these miracles, the 
people did harden their hearts, and did seék to kill them, 
even as the Jews at Jerusalem sought to kill Jesus, accord- 
ing to his word, and they did cast them into furnaces of 
fire, and they came forth receiving no harm; and they also 
cast them into dens of wild beasts, and they did play with 
the wild beasts even as a child with a lamb; aud ier did 
come forth from among them, receiving no harm. Never- 
theless, the people did harden their hearts, for they were 
led by many priests and false prophets to build up many 
churches, and to do all manner of iniquity. And they did 
smite upon the people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did 
not smite again. And thus they did dwindle in unbelief 
and wickedness, from year to year, even until two hundred 
and thirty years had passed away. And now it came te 
in this year, yeayin the two hundred and thirty and 
rst year, there was a great division. among the people. 
And it came to pass that in this year there arose a people 
who were called the Nephites, and they were true believ- 
ers in Christ; and among them there were those who were 
called .by the Lamanites, Jacobites, and Josephites, and 
Zoramites; therefore the true believers in Christ, and the 
true worshipers of Christ, (among whom were the three 
disciples of Jesus who should tariya) were called Nephites, 
and Jacobites, and Josephites, and Zoramites. And it came 
to pass that they who rejected the gospel, were called La- 











BOOK OF NEPHI. 503 


manites, and Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites; and they did 
not dwindle in unbelief, but they did wilfully rebel against 
the gospel of Christ; and they did teach their children that 
they should not believe, even as their fathers, from the be- 
ginning, did dwindle. And it was beaauag of the wicked- 
ness and abominations of their fathers, even as it was in the 
beginning. And they were taught to hate the children of 
God, even as the Lamanites were taught to hate the chil- 
dren of Nephi, from the beginning. | 

And it came to pass that two hundred and forty and four 
years had passed away, and thus were the affaira of the 
people. And the more wicked part of the people did wax 
strong, and became exceeding more numerous than were 
the people of God. And they did still continue to build up 
churches unto themselves, and adorn them with all manner 
of precious things. And thus did two hundred and fifty 
years pass away, and alsotwo hundred and sixty years. 
And it came to pass that the wicked part of the people be- 
gan again to build up the secret oaths and combinations 
of Gadianton. And also the people who were called the 
people of Nephi, began to be proud in their hearts, because 


of their exceeding riches, and become vain, like unto their: 


brethren, the Lamanites. And from this time, the disci- 
ples began to sorrow for the sins of the world. 

And it came to pass that when three hundred years had 
passed away, both the people of Nephi and the Lamanites 
had become exceeding wicked one like unta another. And 
it came to pass that the robbers of Gadianton did spread 
over all the face of the Jand; and there were none that 
were righteous, save it were the disciples of Jesus. And 


gold and silver did they lay up in store in abundance, and | 


did traffic in all manner of traffic. 

And it came to pass that after three hundred and five 
years had passed away, — the people did still remain in 
wickedness,) Amos died, and his brother Ammaron did 
keep the record in his stead. And it came to pass that 
when three hundred and twenty years had passed away, 
Ammaron, being constrained by the Holy Ghost, did hide 
up the records which were sacred; yea, even all the sacred 
records which had been handed down from generation to 
Benen which were sacred, even until the three hun- 

red and twentieth year from the coming of Christ. And 
he did hide them up unto the Lord, that they might come 
again unto the remnant of the house of Jacob, according 
to the prophecies and the promises ofthe Lord. And thus 
is the end of the record of Ammaron. 


504 BOOX OF MORMON. 


BOOK OF MORMON. 
CHAPTER I. ' 


Axp now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which 

I have both seen and heard, and call it the book of Mormon. 
And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto 
the Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of 
age; and I began to be learned somewhat after the man- 
ner of the learning of my people,) and Ammaron said unto 
me, I perceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick 
to observe; therefore when ye are about twenty and four 
years old, I would that ye should remember the things 
that ye have observed concerning this people; and when 
ye are of that age, go to the land Antum, unto a bill, 
which shali be called Shim; and there have I depoèited 
unto the Lord, all the sacred engravings concerning this 
people. And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi 
unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the 
pluce where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates 
of Nephi, ali the things that ye have observed concerning 
this people. And I, Mormon, being a descendent of Nephi, 
and my father’s name was Mormon.) I remembered the 
things which Ammaron commanded me. And it came to 
pass that I, being eleven years old, was carried by my 
fathér into the ‘land southward, even to the land of Zara- 
hemla; the whole face of the land having become covered 
with buildings, and the people were as numerous almost, 
as it were the sand of the sea. And it came to pass in 
this year, there began to be a war between the Nephites, 
who consisted of the Nephites and the Jacobites, and the 
Josephites, and the Zoramites; and this war was between 
the Nephites and the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and 
the Ishmaelites. Now the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, 
and the Ishmaelites were called Lamanites, and the two 
parties were Nephites and Lamanites. And it came to 
pasa that the war began to be among them in the borders 
of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidou. And it came to 
pass that the Nephites had gathered together a@ great 
number of men, even to exceed the number of t irty 
thousand. And it came to pass that they did have in this 
same year a number of battles, in the which the Nephites 
did beat the Lamanites, and did slay many of them. And 
ìt came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design, 


BOOK OF MORMON, 506 


and there was peace settled in the land, and peace did re- 
main for the space of about four years, that there was no 
blood shed. But wickedness did prevail upon the face of: 
the whole land, insomuch that the Lord did take away hie 
beloved disciples, and the work of miracles and of healin 

did cease, because of the iniquity of the people. An 

there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did 
not come upon any, because of their wickednegs and un- 
belief. And I, being fifteen years of age, and being some» 
what.of.a sober mind, therefore I was visited of the Lord, 
and tasted, and knew of.the goodness of Jesus. And I 
did endeavor to preach unto this people, but my mouth 
was shut, and I was forbidden that I should preach unte 
them; for behold they had wilfully rebelled against their 
God, and the beloved disciples were taken away out of 
the land, because of their iniquity. But I did remain 
among them, but I was forbidden to preach unto them, 
because of the hardness of their hearte; and because of 
the hardness of their hearts, the land was cursed for their 
sake. And these Gaddianton robbers, who were among 
the Lamanites, did infest the land, insomuch that the in- 
habitants thereof began to hide up their treasures in the 
earth; and they became slippery, because the Lord had 
cursed the land, that they could not hold them, nor retain 
themagain. And it came to pass that there were sorce- 
ries, and witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the 
evil one was wrought upon all the face of the land, even 
unto the fulfilling of all the words of Abinadi, and also 
Samuel the Lamanite. And it came to pass in that same 
year, there began to be a war again between the Nephites 
and the Lamanites. And notwithstanding I being young, 
was large in stature, therefore the people of Nephi ap- 
pointed me that I should be their leader, or the leader of 
their armies. Thereforé it eame to pass that in my six- 
teenth year I did go forth at the head of an army of the 
tee against the Lamanites; therefore three hundred 
and twenty and six years had passed away. And it came 
to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and seventh 
year, the Lamanites did come upon us with exceeding 
great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; 
therefore they would not fight, and they began to retreat 
towards the north countries. And it came to pass that we 
did come to the city of Angola, and we did take posses- 
sion of the city, and make preparation to defend ourselves 
against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that we did 
fortify the city with our a but notwithstanding all 

; A 


608 BOOK OF MORMON. 


our fortifeations, the Lamanites did come upon us, snd 

did drive us out of the city. And they did also drive us 

forth out of the land of David. And we marched forth 

and came ta the land of Joshua, which was in the borders 
weat, by the seashore. And it came to pass that we did 
gather in our people as fast as it were possible, that we 
might get them together in one body. But behold, the 
land was filled with robbers and with Lamanites; and 
notwithstanding the great deatruction which hung over 
my people, they did not repent of their evil doings; there- 
fore there was blood and carnage spread through all the 
face of the land, both on the part of the Nephites, and 
also on the part of the Lamanites: and it was one complete 
revolution throughout all the face of the land. And now 
the Lamanites had a king, and his name was Aaron; and 
he came against us with an army of forty and four thou- 
sand. And behold, I withstood him with forty and two 
thousand. And it came to pass that I beat him with my 
army, that he fled before me. And behold, all this was 
done and three hundred and thirty years had passed away. 
And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent of 
their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been prophe- 
sied by Samuel the prophet; for behold no man could 
keep that which was his own, for the thieves, and the 
robbers, and the murderers, and the magic art, and the 
witchcraft which was in the land. Thus there began to 
be a mourning and a lamentation in all the land, because 
of these tunge; and more especially among the people of 
Nephi. And it came to pass that when I, Mormon, saw 
theìr lamentation, and their mourning, and their sorrow 
before the Lord, my heart did begin to rejoice within me, 
knowing the mercies and the long suffering of the Lord, 
therefore supposing that he would be merciful unto them, 
that pl would again become a righteous people. But 
behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not 
unto repentance, because of the goodness of’ God, but it 
was rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord 
would not always suffer them to take happiness in sin. 
And they did not come unto Jesus with broken hearts and 
contrite spirits, but they did curse God, and wish to die. 
Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their 
lives. And it came to pass that my sorrow did return unto 
me again, and I saw that the day of grace was past with 

them, both temporally and spiritually, for I saw thousands 

of them hewn down in open rebellion against their God and 
heaped up as dung upon the face of the land. And thus 
throe hundred and forty and four years had passed away. 


BOOK OF MORMON. sot 


And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty 

and fifth year, the Nephites did begin to flee before the 
Lamanites, and they were pursued until they came even 
to the land of Jashon, before it was possible to stop them 
in their retreat. And now the city of Jashon was near 
the land where Ammaron had deposited the records unto 
the Lord, that they might not be destroyed. And behold, 
I had goné according to the word of Ammaron, and taken 
the plates of Nephi, and did make a record according to 
the words of Ammaron, And upon the plates of Nephi I 
did make a full account of all the wickedness and abome 
‘inations; but upon these plates I did forbear to make a full 
account of their wickedness and abominations, for behold, 
a continual scene of wickedness and abominations has 
‘been before mine eyes ever since I have béen sufficient to 
behold the waysof man. And wois me, because of their 
wickedness, for my heart has been filled with sorrow be- 
cause of their wickedness, all my days; nevertheless, I 
know that I shall be lifted up at the last day. 

And it came to pass that in this year the people of 
Nephi again were hunted and driven. And it came tod 
pass that we were driven forth until we had come north- 
ward to the land which was called Shem. And it came 
to pass that we did fortify the city of Shem, and we did 
gather in our people as much as it were possible, that per- 
Race we might save them from destruction. And it came 
to pass in the three hundred and forty and sixth year, the 
began to come upon us again. And it came to pass that 
did speak unto my people, and did urge them with great 
energy, that they would stand boldly before the Lamanites, 
and ‘fight for their wives, and their children, and their 
houses and their homes. And my words did arouse them 
somewhat to vigor, insomuch that they did not flee from 
before the Lamanites, but did stand with boldness against 
them. And it came to pass that we did contend with an 
army of thirty thousand, against an army of fifty thousand. 
And it came to pass that we did stand before them with 
such firmness, that they did flee from before us. And it 
came to pass that when they had fled, we did pursue them 
with our armies, and did meet them again, and did beat 
them; nevertheless the strength of the Lord was not with 
us; yea, we were left to ourselves, that the spirit of the 
Lord did not abide in us; therefore we had become weak, 
ike unto our brethren. And my heart did sorrow be- 
cauee of this the great calamity of my people; because of 
their wickedness and abominations. But behold we did go 
forth against the Lamanites, and the robbers of Gadian- 


s508 BOOK OF MORMON. 


ton, until we hed again taken possession of the lands of 
our inheritance. And the three hundred and forty and 
ninth year had passed away. And in the three hundred 
and fiftieth year, we made a treaty with the Lamanites 
and the robbers of Gadianton, in which we did get the 
lands of our inheritance divided. And the Lamanites did 
give unto us the land northward; yea, even to the narrow 
passage which led into the land southward. And we did 
give unto the Lamanites all the land southward. 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to 
battle again until ten years more had passed away. And 
behold, I had employed my people, the Nephites, in pre- 
paring their lands aud their arms against the time of battle. 
And it came to pass that the Lord did say unto me, cry unto 
this peop s repent ye, and come unto me and be ye bap- 
tized, and build up again my church, and ye shall be 
spared. And I did cry unto this people, but it wasin vain, 
and they did not realize that it was the Lord that had 
spared them and granted unto them a chance for repent- 
ance. And behold they did harden their hearts against 
the Lord their God. And it came to pass that after this 
tenth year had passed away, making, in the whole, three 
hundred and sixty years from the coming of Christ, the 
king of the Lamanites sent an epistle unto me, which gave 
unto me to know that they were preparing to come again 
to battle against us. And it eame to pass that I did cause 
my peor that they should gather themselves together at 
the land Desolation, to a city which was in the borders, 
by the narrow pass which lead into the land southward. 
And there we did place our armies, that we might stop the 
armies of the Lamanites, that they might not get posses- 
sion of any of our lands; therefore we did fortify against 
them with all our force, 

And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty 
end first year, the Lamanitesa did come down to the city 
of Desolation to battle, against ue: And it came to pass 
that in that year, we did beat them, insomuch that they 
did return to their own lands again. And in the three 
hundred and sixty and second year, they did come down 
gain to battle. And we did beat them again, and did 
alay a great number of them, and their dead were cast into 
the sea. And now because of this great thing which my 
people, the Nephites, had done, they began to boast in 
their own strength, and began to swear before the heav- 
ens, that they would avenge themselves of the blood of 
their brethren who had been slain by their enemies. And 
they did swear by the heavens, and also by the throne of 


BOOK OF MORMON. RB 


God, that they would go up to battle against their enemies, 
and would cut them off from the face ef the land. | 
And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly refuse 
from this time forth, to be a conimander and a leader of 
this people, because of their wickedness and abomination. 
Behold, I had led them, riotwithstanding their. wickedness, 
I had lead them many times to battle, and had loved them, 
according to the love of God which was in me, with all 
my heart; and my soul had been poured out in prayer un- 
to my God all the day long, for them; nevertheless, it was 
without faith, because of the hardness of their hearts. 
And thrice have I delivered them out of the hands of their 
enemies, and they have 2 dae not of their sins. And 
when they had sworn by all that had been forbidden them, 
by our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that they would go 
up unto their enemies to battle, and avenge themselves of 
the blood of their brethren, behold, the voice of the Lord 
came unto me, saying, vengeance is mine, and I will re- 
ay; and because this people repented not after I had de- 
livred them, behold, they shall be cut off from the face 
of the earth. And it came to pass that I utterly refused 
to go.up against mine enemies; and I did even asthe Lord 
had commanded me; and I did stand as an idle witness to 
manifest unto the world the things which I saw and heard, 
according tothe manifestations of the spirit which had tes- 
tified of thingsto come. Therefore I write unto you, Gen- 
tiles, and also unto you, house of Israel, when the work 
shall commence, that ye shall be about to prepare to return 
to the land of your inheritance; yea, behold, I write unto 
all the ends of the earth; yea, unto. you, twelve tribes of 
Israel, who shall be judged according to your works, by 
the twelve whom Jesus chose to be bis isciples in the 
land of Jerusalem. And I write also unto the remnant of 
this people, who shall also be judged by the twelve whom 
Jesus chose in this land; and they shall be judged by the 
other twelve whom Jesus chose in the land of Jerusalem. 
And these things do the spirit manifest unto me; therefore 
I write unto you all. And for this cause I write unto you, 
that ye'may know that ye must all stand before the judg- 
ment seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the 
whole human family of Adam; and ye must stand to be 
judged of your works, whether they be gocd or avil; and 
also that ye may believe the gospel of Jesus Christ, which 
ye shall have among you; and aleo that the Jews, the 
covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness be- 
sides him whom they saw i heard, that Jesus whom 


they slew, was the very Christ, and the very Ged; end 

I would that I could persuade all ye ends of the earth 

u repent and prepare to stand before the jugdment seat 
Christ. 


a — 4C 


CHAPTER Tī. 


AND now it came to pass that in the three hundred and 
sixty and third year, the Nephites did go up with their 
armies to battle against the Lamanites, out of the land 
-Desolation. And it came to pass that the armies of the 
Nephites were driven back again to the land of Desola- 
tion. And while they were yet weary, a fresh army of the 
Lamanites did come upon thein; and they had a sore hat- 
tle, insomuch that the Lamanites did take possession of the 
eity Deeolation, and did slay many of the Nephites, and 
did take many prisoners; and the remainder did flee and 
oin the inhabitants of the city Teancum. Ndw the city 
eancum lay in the borders by the seashore; and it was 
also near the city Desolation. And it was because the 
armies of the Nephites went up unto the Lamanitesg, that 
they began to be smitten; for were it not for that, the La- 
mapites could have had no power overthem. But behold, 
the judgments of God will overtake the wicked; and it is 
by the wicked, that the wicked are punished; for it is the 
wicked that stir up the hearts of the children of men unto 
bloodshed. And it came to pass that the Lamanites did 
make preparations to come against the city Teancum. 

And it came to passin the three hundred and sixty and 
fourth year, the Lamanites did come against the city Tean- 
cum, that they might take possession of the city Teancum 
also. And it came to pass that they were repulsed and 
driven back by the Nephites. And when the Nephites 
saw that they had driven the Lamanites, they did again 
boast of their strength: and they went forth in their own 
might, and took possession again of the city Desolation. 
And now all these things had been done, and there had 
been thousands slain on both sides, both the Nephites and 
the Lemenites. And it came tu pass that the three hundred 
end sixty and sixth year had passed away, and the Laman- 
ites came again upon the Nephites to battle; and yet the 
Nephites repented not of the evil they had done, but per- 
sisted in their wickedness continually. And it is impos 
sible for the tongue to describe, or for man to wtite a per- 


‘BOOK. OF MORMON. i 611 


‘fect description of the horrible scene of the blood and 
carnage which was among the people; both of the Ne- 
-phites and of the Lamanitea; and every heart was harden- 
ed, so that they delighted in the shedding of blood con- 
tinually, And there never had been ao great wickedness 
among all the children of Lehi, nor even among all the 
house of Israel, according to the words of the Lord, as 
‘were among this people. 

And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take posses- 
sion of the city Desolation, and this because their number 
did exceed the number of the Nephites. And they did 
also march forward against the city Teancum, and did 
drive the jnhabitants forth out of her, and did take many 
prisoners both women and children, and did offer them upas 
sacrifices unto theiridol gods. And it came to pass that in 
the three hundred and sixty and seventh year, the Nephites 
being angry because the Lamanites hod sacrificed their 
‘women and their ehildren, that they did go against the 
Lamanites with excéeding great anger, insomuch that they 
did beat again the Lamanites, and drive them out of their 
lands; and the Lamanites did not come again against the 
Nephites, until the three hundred and seventy and fifth 
— And in this year they did come down against the 

ephites with all their powers; and they were not num- 
bered because of the,greatnéss of their number. And from 
this time forth did the Nephites gain no power over, the 


Lamanites, but began to be swept off by them even as a, 


dew beforethe sun. And it came to pass that the Laman- 
ites did come down against the city Desolation; and there 
was an exceeding sore battle fought in the land Desola- 
tion, in the which they did beat the Nephites. And they 
fled again from before them, and they came to the cit 
Boaz; and there they did stand against the Lamanites wit 


exceeding boldness, insomach that the Laimanites did not” 


beat them until they had come again the second time, And 
when they had come the second time, the Nephites were 
driven and slaughtered with an exceeding great slaughter; 
their women and their children were again sacrificed unto 
idols. And it came to pass that the Nephites did again 
flee from before them, taking all.the inhabitants with them, 
both in towns and villages. And now I, Mormon, seein 
that the Lamanites were about to overthrow the land, 
therefore I did go to the hill Shim, and did take up all the 
records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord. 
And it came to pass that I did go forth among the Ne- 
hites, and did repent of the oath which I had made, that 
f would no more assist them; and they gave me command 


LA 


in of their armies; for they looked apon me as though 
Teould deliver them from their afgictions. But behold, I 
was without hope, for I knew the judgments of the Lord 
whieh should come upon them; for they repented not of 
their iniquities, but did struggle for their lives, without 
calling upon that Being who created them. And it came 
to pass that the Lamanites did conre against us as we had 
fled to the city of Jordan; but behold, they were. driven 
back that they did not take the city at that time. And it 
came to pass that they came against us again, and we did 
maintain the city. And there were algo other cities which 
were maintained by the Nephites, which strong holds did 
cut them off that they could not get into the country which 
lay before us to destroy the imhabitante of our land. But 
it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had passed by, 
and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were de- 
stroyed by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, 
and cities were burned with fire; and thus the three hun- 
dred and seventy and nine years passed away. . 

And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eighti- 
eth year, the Lamanites did come again against us to bat- 
tle, and we did stand against them boldly; but it was ali 
in vain; forso great were their nambers that they did tread 
the people of the Nephites under their feet. - And it came 
to pasa that we did again take to fight, end those. whose 
Highs was swifter than the Lamanites did escape, and those 
whose flight did not exceed the Lamanites, were — 
down and destroyed. And now behold, I, Mormon, do 
not desire to harrow up the souls of men in casting before 
them such an awful scene of blood and carnage as was laid 
before mine eyes, but I knowing that these things must 
surely be made known, and ‘that all things which are hid 
must be revealed upon the house tops, and also that a 
knowledge of these things must come unto the remnant 
of these people, and also unto the Gentiles, which the Lord 
hath said should scatter this people, and this people should 
be counted as nought among them, therefore I write a small 
abridgemant, daring not to give a full account of the things 
which I heve seen, because of the commandment which I 
have received, and also that ye might not have too great 
sorrow because of the wickedness of this people. And now 
behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the Gen 
tiles, who have care for the house of Israel, that realize and 
know from whence thcir blessings come. For I know that 
such will sorrow for the calamity of the house of Israel; 
yea, — will -sorrow for the destruction of this people; 
they will sorrow that this people had not repented, that 


. BOOX OF - MOR wom. 513 


they might: have ‘been clasped in the arms of Jesus. Now 
these things are written unto the remnant of the house of 
Jacob; and they dre written after this manner, because it 
is known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth 
unto them; and they are to be hid up unto the Lord, that 
they may come forth in his own due time. And this is the 
commandment which I have received; and behold they 
shal) come forth according to the commandment of the 
Lord, when he shall sce fit, in his wisdom. And behold 
they ehall go unto the unbelieving of the Jews; and for 
this intent shall they go; that they may be persuaded that 
Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the 
Father may bring about, through his must beloved, his 
great and eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the 
house of Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which the 
Lord their God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his 
covenant, and also that the seed of ‘this people may more 
fully believe his gospel, which shall go forth unto them 
from the Gentiles; for this people shali be scattered, and 
shall become a dark, a filthy, and a loathsome people, be- 
yond the description of that which ever hath been amongst 
us; yea, even that which hath been among the Lamanites; 
and this because of their unbelief and idolatry. For be- 
hold, the spiric of the Lord hath already ceased to strive 
with their fathers, and they are without Christ and God in 
the world, and they are driven about as chaff before the 
wind. They were once a delightsome people, and they 
had Christ for their Shepherd; yea, they were led even by 
God, the Father. But now, behold they are led about by 
satan, even as chaff is driven before the wind, or as a ves- 
sel is tossed about upon the waves, without sail or anchor, 
or without any thing wherewith to steer her; and even as 
she is, so are they. And behold, the Lord hath reserved 
their blessings, which they might have recéived in the land, 
for the Gentiles, who shall possees the land. But behold, 
it shall come to pass that they shall be driven and scattered 
by the Gentiles; and after they have been driven and scat- 
tered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord remember 
the covenant which he made unto Abraham, and unto all 
the house of Israel. And also the Lord will remember the 
prayers of the righteous, which have been put up unto him 
for them. And then,O ye Gentiles, how can ye stand be- 
fore the power of God, except ye shall repent and turn from 
your evil ways! Know ye not that ye are in the hands of 
God? Know ye not that he hath all power, and at his great 
command the earth shal! be rolled together as a scroll? 
Therefore repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, 


514 BOOK OF MORMON. 


lest he shall come out in justice against you; lest a remi- 
nant of the seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, 
and tear you in pieces, and there is none to deliver. 


—æ 


CHAPTER III. 


Anp now I finish my record concerning the destructidn 
of my people, the Nephites. And it came to pass that we 
did march forth before the Lamanites. And I, Mormon, 
wrote an epistle unto the king of the Lamanites, and de- 
sired of him that he would grant unto us that we might 
gather together our people unto the land of Cumorah, by 
a hill which was called Cumorah, and there we would give 
them battle. And it came to pass that the king of the La- 
manites did grant unto me the ang which I desired. And 
it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of Cu- 
morah, and we did pitch our tents round about the hill Cu- 
morah; and it was in a land of many waters, rivers and 
fountains; and here we had hope to gain advantage over 
the Lamanites. And when three hundred and eighty and 
four years had passed away, we had gathered in all the re- 
mainder of our people unto the land Cumorah. 

And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all 
our people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mor- 
mon, began to be old; and knowing it to be the last strng- 
gle of my people, and having been conimanded of the 

ord that I should not suffer that the records which had 
been handed down by our fathers, which were sacred, to 
fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the Lamanites 
would destroy them,) therefore I made this record out of 
the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah, all 
the records which had been entrusted to me by the hand 
of the Lord, save it were these few plates which I gave 
unto my son Moroni. And it came to pass that my people, 
with their wives and their children, did now behold the 
armies of the Lamanites marching towards them; and with 
that awful fear of death which fills the breasts of ali the 
wicked, did they await to receive them. And it came to 
pass that they come to battle against us, and every soul was 

lled with terror, because of the greatness of their 
numbers. And it came to pass that they did fall upon my 
people with the sword, and with the bow, and with the ar- 
row, and with the axe, and with all manner of weapons of 
war. And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, 


BOOK OF MORMON. 315 


yea, even my ten thousand who were with me; and I.fell . 
wounded in the midst; and they passed by me that the 
did not put an end to my life. And when they had gone 
through and hewn down all my people save it were twenty 
and four of, us, (among whom was my son Moroni,) and 
we having survived the dead of our people, did behold on 
the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their 
camps, from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand 
of my people who were hewn down, being led in the front 
by me; and we also beheld the ten thousand of my people 
who were led by my son Moroni. And behold, the ten 
thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and he also in the 
midst; and Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and 
Gilgal had fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had 
fallen with his ten thousand; and Joneam had fallen with 
his ten thousand; and Camenihah, and Moronihah, and 
Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem, and Josh, had fallen 
with their ten thousand each. 

And it came to pass that there were ten more who did 
fall by the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even 
all my people, save it were those twenty and four who 
were with me, and also a few who had escaped into the 
south countries, and a few who had dissented over unto 
the Lamanites, had fallen, and their flesh, and bones, and 
blood lay upon the face of the earth, being left by the 
hands of those who slew them, to moulder upon the land, 
and to crumble and to return to their mother earth. And 
my soul was rent with angtish, because of the slain of my 
people, and I cried, O ye fair ones, how could ye have 

eparted from the ways of the Lord! O ye fair ones, how 
could ye have rejected that Jesus, who stood with open 
arms to receive you! - Behold, if ye had not done this, ye 
would not have fallen. But behold, ye are fallen, aed | 
mourn your loss. O ye fair sons and: daughters, ye fathers 
and mothers, ye husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is 
it that ye could have fallen! But behold, ye are gone, and — 
my sorrows cannot bring your return; and the day soon 
cometh that your mortal must put on immortality, and 
these bodies which are now mouldering in corruption, 
must soon become incorruptible bodies; and then ye must 
stand before the judgment seat of Christ, to be judged ac- 
caang to your works; and if it so be that ye are right- 
eous, then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone 
- before you. O that ye had repented befọre this great de- 
struction had come upon you.: But behold, ye are gone, 
and the Father, yea, the eternal Father of heaven, know- 


516 BOCK OF MORMON. 


eth your state; and he doeth with you according to his 
justice and mercy. 

And now behold, I would speak somewhat unto the 
remnant of this people who are spared, if it so be that 
God may give unto them my words, that they may know 
of the things of their fathers; yea, I speak unto you, ye 
remnant of the house of Israel; and these are the words 
which I speak, know ye that ye are of the house of Israel. 
Know ye that ye must come unto repentance, or ye 
cannot be saved. Kuow ye that ye must lay down your 
weapons of war, and delight no more in the shedding of 
blood, and take them not again, save it be that God shall 
command you. Know ye that ye must come to the know- 
ledge of your fathers, and repent of all your sins and in- 
iquities, aud believe in Jesus Christ, that he is the Son of 

od, and that he was slain by the Jews, and by the power 
of the Father he hath risen again, whereby he hath gained 
the victory over the grave; and also in him is the sting of 
death swallowed up. And he bringeth to pass the resur- 
rection of the dead, whereby man must be raised to stand 
before his judgment seat. And he hath brought to pass 
the redemption of the world, whereby he that is found 
guiltless before him at the judgment day, hath it given 
unto him to dwell in the presence of God in his kingdom, 
to sing ceaseless praises with the choirs above, unto the 
Father, and unto the Son, and unto the Holy Ghost, which 
are one God, in a state of happiness which hath no end. 
Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, 
and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set 
before you, not only in this record, but also in the record 
which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which 
record shall come from the Gentiles unto you. For be- 
hold, this is written for the intent that ye may believe that; 
and if ye beliéve that, ye will believe this also; and if ye 
believe this, ye will know concerning your fathers, and 
also the marvelous works which were wrought by the 
power of God among them; and ye will also know that ye 
are a remnant of the seed of Jacob; therefore ye are num- 
bered among the people of the first covenant; and if it so 
be that ye believe in Christ, and are baptized, first with 
water, then with fire and with the Holy Ghost, following 
the example of our Saviour according to that which he 
hath commanded us, it shall be well with you in the day 
of judgment. Amen. 


WOOK: OR NORMOM sig 
CHAPTER. IV. 


Benon I,. Moroni, do fimish the record: of' my: father 
Mormon. Behold, I have:but few :things-to write, which 
things I have been commended of my father: And now 
it came to pass that after the great anditremendous battlé 
at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites: who had escaped. intg 
the: country southward, were hunted: by the Lamanites; 
until. they. were: all. destroyed; and my father also: was 
killed by them; and I, even remain alone to write the sad 
tale of the destruction of my people. But behold, they are 
gone, and I fulll the-commendment of my father: And! 
whether they will slay.me, I.know. not; therefore. I wilP 
write and: hide up the. records:in the earth, and: whither P 
go it mattereth. not.: Behold, my father hath: made this 
record, and he hath: written.the intent thereofi Andi be~ 
hold, I. would write it also, if I had'room: upon the plates; 
but I have not; and.ore I have:none, for I am.alone; my: 
father hath been slain in battle, and all my kinsfolks, and! 
I-have not friends nor whither to go; and how long the 
Lord. will suffer that I may live, Iknow-not. Behold, four: 
hundred: years: have. passed.away since the coming of'our 
` Lord and Saviour. And behold, the Lamanites have hunted! 
my people, the Nephites,.down from city:to city, and'ftorh: 
pees to place, even: until. they are'no' more, and: great has- 

en:their fall; beg reat and ‘marvelous is the destruction 
of my’peeple, the Nophites. And. behold, it is the hand’ 
of the: Lord which: hath done it. And behold alse, the: 
Lamanites are at :‘warone with: another; and’ the: whote- 
face:of. this land is one continual. round of murder and’ 
blaodsked ; and'no one knoweth the end:ofthe war. And* 
now behold, I say ‘no more concerning them, for there are- 
none, save it be the. Lamanitea and:robbers, that do exist’ ' 
upon:the face of the land; and:thery are none that do know 
the true-God, save it bo the disciples of Jesus, who did tarry + 
in the land until the wickedness of the people was so- great” 
that the Lord.would not suffer them to remain: with: the’ 
people; and whether they be upon the face of the land, no’ 
man knoweth. But. behold, my father and I have seen 
them, and they have ministered: unto us. And. whose - 
receiveth this. record, and. shall: not: condémn it because 
of: the imperfections which are in-it, the same shall: know: 
of:greater things than these. Behold, I am Moroni; and ` 
were it possible, I would make all:things known unto yor. 
Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this people: 
I am the son-of Mormon, PA ather was a descendant: 


518 BOOK OF MORMON. 


of Nephi; and I am the same who hideth up this record unto 
the Lord; the plates thereof are of no worth, because of 
the commandment of the Lord. For he truly saith, that 
no one shall have them to get gain; but the record thereof 
is of great worth; and whoso shall bring it to light, him 
will the Lord bless. For none can have power to bring it 
to light, save it be given him of God; for God will that it 
shall be done with an eye single to his glory, or the wel- 
fare of the ancient and long dispersed covenant people of 
the Lord, And blessed be him that shall bring this thing 
to light; for it shall be brought out of darkness unto light, 
according to the word of God; yea, it shall be brought out 
of the earth, and it shall shine forth out of darkness, and 
come unto the knowledge of the people: and it shall be 
done by the power of God; and if there be faults, they be 
the faults of a man, But behold, we know no fault; never- 
theless, God knoweth all things; therefore he that con- 
demneth, let him be aware lest he shall be in danger of 
hell fire. And he that sayeth, shew unto me, or ye shall 
be smitten, let him beware lest he commandeth that which 
is forbidden of the Lord. For behold, the same that judg- 
eth rashly, shall be judged rashly again; for according to 
his works shall his wages be; therefore, he that smiteth, 
shali be smitten again of the Lord. Behold what the scrip- 
ture says man shall not smite, neither shall he judge; for 
judgment is mine, saith the Lord; and vengeance is mine 
also, and I will repay. And he that shall breathe out wrath 
and strifes against the work of the Lord, and against the 
covenant people of the Lord, who are the house of Israel, 
and shall say, we will destroy the work of the Lord, and 
the Lord will not remember his covenant which he hath 
made unto the house of Israel, the same is in danger to be 
hewn down and cast into the fire; for the eternal purposes 
of the Lord shall roll on, until all his promisea shall be 
fulfilled. Search the prophecies of Isaiah. Behold, I 
cannot write thom. Yea, behold I say unto you, that 
those saints who have gone before me, who have possessed 
this land, shall cry; yea, even from the dust will they cry 
unto the Lord; and as the Lord liveth, he will remember 
the covenant which he hath made with them. And he 
knoweth their prayers, that they were in behalf of their 
brethren. And he knoweth their faith; for in his name 
could they remove mountains; and in his name could they 
cause the earth to shake; and by the power of, his word 
did they cause prisons to tumble to'the earth; yea, even 
the fiery furnace could not harm them; neither wild beasts, 
nor poisonous serpents, because of the power of his word. 











BOOK OF MORMON. 619 


And behold, théir prayers were also in behalf of him that 
the Lord should suffer to bring these things forth. And 
no one need say, they shall not come, for they surely shall, 
for the Lord hath epoken it; for out of the earth shall they 
come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and 
it shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles 
are done away; and it shall come even as if one should 
speak from the dead. And it shall come ina day when 
the blood of saints shall cry unto the Lord, because of 
secret combinations aad the works of darkness; yea, it 
shall come in a day when the power of God shall be de- 
nied, and churches become defiled, and shall be lifted up 
in the pride of their hearts; yea, even in a day when lead- 
ers of churches, and teachers, in the pride of their hearts, 
even to the envying of them who belong their churches; 
yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be heard of 
fires, and eevee and vapors of smoke in foreign lands; 
and there shall also be heard of wars, and rumors of wara, 
and earthquakes in divers places; yea, it shall come ina. 
day when there shall be great pollutions upon the face of 
the earth; there shall be murders and robbing, and lying, 
and deceivings, and whoredoms, and all manner of abom- 
inations, when there shall be many who will say, do this, 
or do that, and it mattereth not, for the Lord will uphold 
such at the last day. But wo unto such, for they are in 
the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity. Yea, 
it shall come in a day when there shall be churches built 
up that shall say, come unto me, and for your money you 
shal! be forgiven of your sins. O ye wicked and perverse, 
and stiffnecked people, why have you built up churches 
unto yourselves to get gain? Why have ye transfigured 
the holy word of God, that ye might bring damnation 
upon your souls? Behold, look ye unto the revelations of 
God. For behold, the time cometh at that day when all 
these things must be fulfilled. Behold, the Lord hath 
shewn unto me great and marvelous things concerning 
that which must shortly come at that day when these 
things shall come forth among you. Behold, I speak unto 
you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, 

esus Christ hath shewn you unto me, and I know your 
doing; and I know that ye do walk in the pride of your 
hearis; and there are none, save a few only, who do not 
lift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto the 
wearing of very fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, 
and malice, an persecutions, and all manner of iniquitiess 
and ou churches, yea, even every one, have become pol- 
luted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold, ye 


z0 300K OF MORMON. 


do love money, snd your substances, and your fine 4 
rel, and the adorning of your churches, more than.yé love 
ithe poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted. Oye 
pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye. teachers, who sell yourselves 
Tor that which will canker, why have ye polluted the hely 
church of God? gs A ye ashamed to take upon yor 
‘the name of Christ? Why do you.not think that greater 
is the value of an endless bappiness, than that mi 
which never dies, because of the praise of the world. ‘Why 
do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no. life, and 
yet suffer the hungry, and the.needy, and the naked, and 
‘the sick, and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them 
-not?} Yea, why do ye build up your secret abominations 
to get gain, and cause that widows should mourn before 
the Lord, and also orphans to mourn before the Lord; and 
also the blood of their fathers and their husbards to cry 
unto the Lord from the ground, for vengeance upon your 
heads? Behold the sword of vengeance hangeth over you; 
and the time soon cometh that he oronge! ‘the blood of 
the saints upon you, for he will not suffer their. cries any 
lenger. . 

And now, I speak alao concerning these wko.do not be- 
lieve in Christ. Behold, will ye believe in the day of your 
visitation, behold, when the Lord shall come; yea, even 
that great day when the earth shall be rolled together as 
a scroll, and the elements shal! melt with fervent heat; 
yea, in that great day when ye shall be brought to stand 

fore the Lamb of Qod, then will ye say that there is no 
God? Then will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye be- 
hold the Lamb of God? Do ye suppose that yeshall dwell 
with him under a consciousness of your guilt? Do ye sup- 
pose thet ye could be happy to dwell with that holy being, 
when your souls are racked with a consciousness of gailt 
that ye have ever abused his laws? Behold I say unto you, 
that ye would be more miserable to dwell with a holy and 
just God, under a consciousness of your filthiness before 

im, than ye would to dwell with the damned souls in 
hell, For behold, when ye shall be brought to see your 
nakedness before God, and also the glory of God, and the 
holiness of Jesus Christ, it will kindle a flame of unquench- 
able fire upon you. O then ye unbelieving, turn ye unte 
the Lord; cry mightily unto the Father in the name of 
Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, pure, fair 
and white, having been cleansed by the plood of the Lamb, 
at that great and last day. And again I speak unto you, 
who deny the revelations of God, and say that they are 
done away, that there are no revelations, nor prophecies, 


BOOK OF MORMON. 621 


nor gifts, hor healing, nor speaking with tongues, and the 
interpretation of tongues. Behold I say unto you, he that 
denieth these things, knoweth not the gospel of Christ; 
yea, he has not read the scriptures; if so, he does not un- 
derstand them. For do we not read that God is the same 
yesterday, to-day, and forever; and in him there is no 
variableness neither shadow of changing. And now, if ye 
have imagined up unto yourselves a god who doth vary, 
and in him there is shadow of changing, then have ye im- 
agined up unto yourselves a god who is not a God of mir- 
aclės. But behold, I will shew unto you a God of mita- 
cles, even the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and 
the God of Jacob; and it is that same God who created the 
heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. 
Behold, he created Adams and by Adam came the fall of 
man. And because of the fall of man, came Jesus Christ, 
even-the Father and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ 
came the redemption of man. And because of the re- 
demption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they aro 
brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is 
wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ 
bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pase a 
redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all 
men shall be awoke by the power of God, when the trum 

shall sound; and they ehali come forth, both small an 

great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed 
and leosed from this eternal band of death, which death is 
a temporal death; and then cometh the judgment of the 
Holy One upon them; and then cometh the time that he 
that is filthy shall be filthy still, and he that is righteous, 
shall be righteous still; he that is happy, shall be happy 
still; and he that is unhappy, shall be unhappy gtill. And 
now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves a god 
who can do no miracles, I would ask of you, have all these 
things par of which 1 have spokefi? Has the end come 
yet? Behold I say unto you, nay; and God has not ceased 
to be a God of miracles. Behold, are not the things that 
God hath wrought marvelous in our eyes? Yea, and who 
can comprehend the marvelous works of God? Who shall 
say that it was not a miracle, that by his word the heaven 
and the earth sliould be; and by the power of his word, 
man was created of the dust of the earth; and by the pow- 
er of his word, hath miracles been wrought? And who 
shall say that Jesus Christ did not do many mighty mira- 
eles? And there were many mighty miracles wrought by 
the hands of the — if there were miracles 





522 BOOK OF MORMON. 


wrought, then why has God ceased to be a God of miracles, 
and yet be an unchangeable being. And behold I say unto 
you, he changeth not; if so, he would cease to be God; 
and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miraeles. 
And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the 
children of men, is because that they dwindle in unbelief, 
and depart from the right way, and know not the God in 
whom they should trust. hald I say unto -you, that 
whoso believeth in Christ, doubting nothing, whatsoever 
he shall ask the Father in the name of Christ it shall be 
granted him; and this promise is unto all, even unto the 
ends of the earth. For bebold, thus saith Jesus Christ, the 
Son of God, unto his disciples who should tarry; yea, and 
algo to all his jen FER in the hearing of the multitude, go 
ye into all the world, andpreach the gospel to every crea- 
ture; and he that believeth and is baptized, shal] be saved, 
but he that believeth not, shall be damned. And these 
signs shall follow them that believe, in my name shall they 
cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues they 
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, 
it shall not hurt them; the shall lay hands on the sick, 
and they shall recover; and whosoever shall believe in my 
name, doubting nothing, unto him will I confirm all m 
words, even unto the ends of the earth. And now behol 
who can stand against the works of the Lord? Who can 
deny his sayings? Who will rise up against the almighty 
ower of the Lord? Who will despise the works of the 
rd? Who will despise the children of Christ} Behold, 
all ye who are despisers of the works of the Lord, for ye 
shall wonder and perish. O then despise not, and wonder 
not, but hearken unto the words of the Lord, and ask the 
Father in the name of Jesus for what things soever ye shall 
stand in need. Doubt not, but be believing, and begin as 
in times of old, and come unto the Lord with all your 
heart, and work out Your own salvation with fear and 
trembling before him. Be wise in the days of your proba- 
tion; strip yourselves of all uncleanness; ask not, that ye 
may consume it on your lusts, but ask with a firmness un- 
shaken, that ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will 
serve the true and living God. See that ye are not bap- 
tized unworthily; see that ye partake not df the sacrament 
of Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all things in wor- 
thiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of 
the living God: and if ye do this, and endure to the end, 
ye will in no wise be cast out. Behold, I speak unto you 
as though I spake from the dead; for I know that ye shall 
hear my words. Condemn me not because of mine imper- 








— — — oy 


BOOK OF ETHER. 523 


feetion; neither my father; beċanse of his imperfection; 
neither them who have written before him, but rather give 
thanke unto God that he hath made manifest unto you our 
imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we 
have been. 

And now behold, we have written this record according 
to our knowledge in the characters, which are called 
among us the reformed Egyptian, being handed down and 
altered by us, according to our manner of speech. And if 
our plates had been sufficiently large, we should have writ- 
ten in Hebrew; but the Hebrew hath been altered by us 
also; and if we could have written in Hebrew, behold, ye 
would have had no imperfection in our record. But the Lord 
knoweth the things which we have written, and also that 
none other people knoweth our language, therefore he hath 
prepared means for the interpretation thereof. And these 
things are written, that we may rid our garments of the 
blood of our brethren who have dwindled in unbelief. 
And behold, these things which we have desired concerning 
our brethren, yea, even their restoration to the knowledge 
of Christ, is ERE to the prayers of all the saints who 
have dwelt in the land. And may the Lord Jesus Christ 

nt that their prayers may be answered according to their 
aith; and may God the Father remember the covenant 
which he hath made with the house of Israel; and may he 
bless them forever, through faith on the name of Jesus 
Christ. Amen. 


3o+o-~ 


BOOK OF ETHER. 
CHAPTER I. 


Anp now I Moroni, proceed to give an account of those 
ancient inhabitants who were destroyed by the hand of the 
Lord upon the face of this north country. And I take 
mine account from the twenty and four plates which were 
found by the people of Limhi, which is called the book of 
Ether. And as I suppose that the first part of this record, 
which speaks concerning the creation of the world, and also 
of Adam, and an account from that time even to the great 
tower, and whatsoever things transpired among the chirdren 
of men until that time, is had among the Jews, therefore I 
do not write those things which transpired from the days of 
Adam until that time; but they are had upon the plates; and 


524 BOOK OF ETHER. 


whoeo findeth them, the same will have power that he may 
get the full account. But behold, I give, nat the full ac- 
count, but a part of the account I give, from the tower down 
until they were destroyed. And on this wise do I give the 
account. Hethat wrote this record was Ether, and he was 
a descendant of Coriantor; Coriantor was the son of Moron; 
and Moron was the son of Ethem; and Ethem was the aonof 
Ahah; and Ahah was the son of Seth; and Seth was the son 
of Shiblon; and Shiblon was the son of Com; and Com was 
the son of Coriantum; and Coriantum wasthe eon of Amni- 
gaddah ; and Amnigaddah was the son of Aaron; and Aaron 
wasa descendant of Heth, who was the son of Hearthom; 
and Hearthom was the son of Lib; and Lib wasthe sonof 
Kish; and Kish was the son of Corum; and Corum was the 
son of Levi; and Levi was the sou of Kim; and: Kim was the 
son of Morianton; and Morianton was a descendant of 
Riplakish; and Riplakish was the son of Shez; and Shez 
was the son of Heth ; and Heth was the son of Com; and 
Com was the aon of Coriantum; and Coriantum was the 
eon of Emer; and Emer was the son of Omer; and Omer 
was the Son of Shule; and Shule was the son ef Kib; and 
Kib was the son of Orihah, who was the son of Jared; 
which Jared came forth with his brother and their families, 
with some others and their familes, from the great tower, 
at the time the Lord confounded the language of the peo- 
ple, and swear in his wrath that they should be scattered 
apon all the face of the earth; and according to the word 
of the Lord the people were scattered. And the brother 
of Jared, being a rp and a mighty man, and being a 
man highly favored of the Lord; for Jared his brother said 
unto him, cry unto the Lord, that he will not confound us 
that we may not understand our words, And it eame to 
pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord, and 
the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he did not 
confound the language of Jared; and Jared and his brother 
were not confounded. Then Jared said unto his brother, 
cry again unto the Lord, and it may-be that he will turn 
away his anger from them who are our friends, that he con- 
found not their language. And it came to pads that the 
brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord, and the Lord had 
compassion upon their friends, and their families also, that 
mer were not counfounded. And it cameto pass that Jared 
spake again unto his brother, saying, go and inquire of the 
Lord whether he will drive us out of the land, and if he 
will drive us out of the land, cry unto him whither we shall 
go. And who knoweth but the Lord will carry us forth 
snto a land which is ehoice above all the earth. And if it 





- (BOOK: oF ux. 


mo be, let ‘us be faithful usto the Lord, that we may receive 
‘it for our inheritanee. 

And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did ery 
‘into the Lord -aceording to that which hed been spoken by 
‘the mouth of Jered. And it came to pass that the Lord did 
dhear the brother of Jared, and had compassion. upon him, 
‘and said unto him, goto and gather together-thy flocks, 
‘both male and female, of every kind; and also of the seed 
of the earth.of every: kind, end thy families; and also Jared 
‘thy brother and his family; and also.thy friends and their 
'families, and the friends of Jared and their families. “And 
when thou trast done this, thou:shalt go at the head of them 
down into the valley,-which is northward. Aad there will 
I meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land’which is 
ehoiee above all the lund-of the eatth. And there will I 
Dieses thee and thy seed, ‘and raise up unto me of thy seed, 
ead of the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with 
‘thee, a great natién. And there #hall-be none greater than 
the-nation whieh I will raise up umo me of thy:seed, upon 
all the face of the earth. And thus I will do unto thee be» 
‘canse thie long time ye have cried unto me. ; 

And it came to pass that Jared, and his brother, and their 
families, and also the.friends of Jared and his brother, and 
thoir families, went down into the valley which was north- 
ward, (and the name of the valley was Nimrod, being call- 
ad after the mighty hunter,) with their flocks which the 
had gathered together, male and female, of every kind. 
‘And they did also lay enares and catch fowls of the air, 
‘and they did also prepare a vessel, in which they did carry 
smith them the fish of ‘the waters; and they did also carry 
with them deseret, wirich, by interpretation, is a honey 
bee; and thus they did carry with them swarms of bees, 
and all manner of that which was upon the face of the lend, 
weeds of'every kind. And it came to pass that when they 
had come down into the valley of Nimrod, the Lord came 

. down and talked with the brother of Jared; and he was in 
a cloud, and the brother of Jared saw him-not. And it 
osme to pass that the Lord commanded them that they 
should go forth into the wilderness, yea, into that quartet 
‘where there never had man been. -And it eame to pass 


` that the Lord did go before them, and did talk with them 


as he stood in a cloud, and gave directions whither they 
should travel. And it came to pass that they did travel in 
the wilderness, and did build barges, in which they did 
cross many waters, being directed — by the hand 
of the Lord. And the Lord would not suffer that they 
should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would 





636 .BOOK OF BENER. 


that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, 
which was choice above all other lands which the Lord 
God had preserved for a righteous people; and he had 
sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso 
should possess this land of promise, from that time hence- 
forth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, 
or they should be swept off when the fullness of his wrath 
should come upon them. And now we can behold the 
decrees of God concerning this land, that it je,a land of 
promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve 
God, or they shall be swept off when the fullness of hie 
wrath shall come upon them. And the fullness of his wrath 
cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity; for 
behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; 
wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall 
be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And 
itis not until the fullness of iniquity among the children of 
the land, that they are swept off. And‘this cometh unte 
you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, 
that ye may repent, and not continuein your iniquities un- 
til the fullness come, that ye may not bring down the full- 
ness of the wrath of God upon yau, as the inhabitants of 
the land hath hitherto done. . Behold, this is a choice land, 
and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from 
bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations 
under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, 
who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things 
which we have written. And now I proceed with my re- 
cord; for behold it came to pass that the Lord did brin 
Jared and his brethren forth even to that great sea whi 
divideth the lands. And as they came to the sea, they 
itched their tents; and they called the name of the place 
oriancumer; and they dwelt in tents; and dwelt in tents 
upon the seashore for the space of four years. And it came 
to pass at the end of four years, that the Lord came egain 
unto the brother of Jared, and stood in a cloud and talked , 
with him. And for the space of three hours did the Lord 
talk with the brother of Jared, and chastened him because 
he remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord. 
And the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he 
hed done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his 
brethren who were with him. And the Lord said unto 
him, I will forgive thee and thy brethren of their sins; but 
thou shalt not sin any more, for ye shall remember that m 
spirit will not always strive with man; wherefore if ye will 
mn until ye are fully ripe, ye shall be cut off from the pres- 
ence of the Lord. And these are my thoughts upon the 


BOOK OF ETHER. 527 


land which I shall give -you for your inheritance; for it 
shall be a land choice above all other lands. And the Lord 
said, go to work and build, after the manner of barges 
which ye have hitherto built. And it came to pass that the 
brother of Jared did go to work, and also his brethren, and 
built barges after the manner which they had built, accord- 
ing to the instructions of the Lord. And Ea were small, 
and they were light upon the water, even like unto the 
ue ieee of a fowl upon the water; and they were built 
after a manner that they were exceeding tight, even that 
they would hold water like unto a dish; and the bottom 
thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the sides thereof 
were tight like untoa dish; and the ends thereof were 
peaked; and the top thereof was tight like unto a dish; 
and the length thereof was the length of a tree; and the 
door thereof, when it was shut, was tight like unto a dish. 
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared cried unto 
the Lord, saying, O Lord I have performed the work which 
thou hascommanded me, and I have made the barges ac- 
cording as thou hast directed me. And behcld, O Lord. in 
them there is no light, whither shall we steer. And also 
we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it is 
_ the air which is in them; therefore we shall perish. And 


the Lord said unto the brother of Jared, behold, thou shalt ` 


make a hole in the top thereof, and also in the bottom 
thereof; and when thon shalt suffer for air, thou shalt un- 
stop the hole thereof, and receive air. And if it so be that 
the water come in upon thee, behold, ye shall stop the hole 
thereof, that ye may not perish in the flood. And it came 
to pass that the brother of Jared did so, according as the 


Lord had commanded. Andhe cried again unto the Lord,™ 


saying, O Lord, behold I have done even as thou hast com- 
manded me; and I have prepared the vessels for my peo- 
ple, and behold, there is no light in them. Behold, O Lord, 
wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great water in dark- 


ness? And the Lord said unto the brather of Jared, what: : 


will ye that I should do that ye may have light in your 
vessels? For behold, ye cannot have windows, for the: 
will be dashed in pieces; neither shall ye take fire with 
you, for ye shall not go by the light of fire; for behold, ye 
shall be as a whale in the midst of the sea; for the moun- 
tain waves shall dash upon you. Nevertheless, I will bring 
zou up again out of the depths of the sea; for the winds 
ave gone forth out of my mouth, and also the rains and 
. the floods have I sent forth. And behold, I prepare you 
against these things; for howbeit, ye cannot cross this 
great deep, save I prepare you against the waves of the 


sea, and the: winds which have fértl, and-che-fibedé 
which shall come. Therefore what will ye that I shouid 

repare for: you, — may have light when ye are swal- 
—— up.in the depths oſ the ses? 

And it came to pass that the brother of Jared, (now the 
number of the vessels which had been prepered, was eight,) 
went forth unto the mount, which they called the: mount 
Shelem, because of ite exceeding height, and did moultez 
out of a rock sixteen small. stones; and they were white 
and clear, even as transparent glass, and he did thenr 
in his hands upon the. top of the mount, and cried again 
unto the Lord, saying, O- Lord, thou hast said that we: mast 
be encompassed about by the floods. Now behold, O 
Lord, and do not be angry with thy servant because -of his 
weaknesa before thee; for. we know that thou art holy, 
and dweilest in the heavens; and that we-are unworthy: 
before thee; because of the fall our natures have become 
eyil continually; nevertheless, O Lord, thou h iven us 
a commandment that we must call upon thee, that from- 
thee we may receive eceording to our desires, Behold, O 
Lord, thou hast smitten us because of our iniquity, and hath: 
driven us forth, and for this many pean we have been in 
the wilderness; nevertheless, thou hast been merciful unte: 
ua. O Lord, look.upon me in pity, and turn away thine: 
anger from this thy people, and suffer not that they shall 
go forth across this raging deep in darkness, bat behold: 
these things. which I have moulien out of the rock. And: 
I know, 6 Lord, that thou-hast all power, and can da 
whatsover thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch: 
these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and prepare them 

“that they may shine forth in darkness: and they shall shine 
forth unto.usin the vessels which we have prepared, that 
we may have light while we shall cross the sea, Behold, 
O Lord, thou canst do this. We know that thou art: able 
to shew forth great power, which looks small unto the 
understanding of men. And it came to thet when 
the brother of Jared had said these: words, behold, the 
Lord stretched forth his hand and touched the stones, one 
by one, with his finger; and the vail wae taken from off 
the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the 
Lord; and it was as the finger. of a man, like unto flesh 
and blood; and the brother of Jared fell down before the 
Lord, for he was struck with fear. And the Lord aa w that 
the brother of Jared had fallen to the earth; and the Lord 
gaid unto him, arise, why hast thou fallen? And he saith 
unto the Lord, I sew the finger of: the Lord, and I feared 
lest he should smite me; for I knew not that the Lord had: 


Book of ETHER. | bdo 


Besh ard blood. And the Lord gaid unto him, because of 
thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and 
blood; and never has man come before me with such ex- 
ceeding faith as thou hast; for were it not so, ye could not 
‘have seen my finger. Sawest thou more than this? And 
he answeted, nay, Lord, shew thyself unto me. And the 
Lord said unto liim, believest thou the words which I shall 
speak? And he answered, yea, Lord, I know that thou 
-peakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst 
not lie. And when he had said these words, behold the 
Lord shewed himself unto him, and said, because thou 
knowest these things, ye are redeemed from the fall; there- 
fote ye are brought back into my presence; therefore I 
shew myself unto you. Behold, I am he who was pre- 
pared from the foundation of the world to redeem my peo- 

le. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. I-am the Father and the 
‘Soh. ` Iù me sball all mankind have light, and that eter- 
naily, even they who shall believe on my name; and they 
shall become my sons and my daughters. And neverhave 
I shewed myself unto man whom I have created, for never 
‘has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye 
are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men 
“were created in the beginning, after mine own image? 
Behold this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my 
wpirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; 
and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit, will I 
‘appeat unto my people in the flesh. 

And row, as L Moroni, said I could not not make a full 
account of these things which are written, therefore it 
wufficeth te to say, that Jesus shewed himself unto this 
mian in the spirit, even after the manner and in the like- 
ness óf the same body, even as he shewed himself unto 


the Nephites; and he ministered unto him, even ashe min- _ 


istered unto the Nephites; and all this, that this man might 
know that he was Ged, because of the many great works 
which the Lord had shéwéd unto him. And because of 
the knowledge of this man, he could not be kept from 
beholding within the vail; and he saw the finger of Jesus, 
which, when he saw, he fell with fear; for he knew that 
it was the finger of the Lord; and he had faith no longer, 
for he ktiew, nothing doubting; wherefore, having this 
perfect knowledge of God, he could not be kept from 
within the vail; therefore he saw Jesus, and he did minis- 
ter unto him. 

And it came to pass that the Lord said unto the brother 
of Jared, behold, thou shalt 2 suffer these things which 


530 BOOK OF ETHER. 


ye have seen and heard, to go forth unto the world, until 
the time cometh that I shall glorify my name in the flegh; 
wherefore, ye shall treasure up the things which ye have 
seen and heard, and shew it to no man. And behold, when 
ye shall come unto me, ye shall write them and seal them 
up, that no one can interpret them; for ye shall write them 
in a language that they cannot be read. And behold, these 
two stones will I give unto thee, and ye shall seal them 
up also, with the thmgs which ye shall write. For behold, 
the — which ye shall write, I have confounded; 
wherefore Í will cause in mine own due time that these 
stones shall magnify to the eyes of men, these things which 

e shall write. And when the Lord had said these words, 

é shewed unto the brother of Jared all the inhabitants of 
the earth which had been, and alsoall that would be; and 
he withheld them not from his sight, even unto the ends of 
the earth; for he had said unto him in times before, that 
if he would believe in him, that he could shew unto him 
all things—it should be shewn Unto him; therefore the 
Lord could not withhold any thing from him; for he knew 
that the Lord could shew him all things. And the Lord 
- gaid unto him, write these things and seal them up, and I 
will shew them in mine own due time unto the children 
of men. 

And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that 
he should seal up the two stones which he had received, 
and shew them not, until the Lord should shew them unto 
the children of men. And the Lord commanded the 
brother of Jared to go down out of the mount from the 
presence of the Lord, and write the things whieh he had 
seen; and they were forbidden to come unto the children 
of men, until after that he should be lifted up upon the 
cross; and for this cause did king Benjamin keep them, 
that they should not come unto the world until after 
Christ honid shew himself unto his people. And after 
Christ truly had shewed himself unto his people, he com 
manded that they should be made manifest. And now, 
after that, they have dwindled in unbelief, and there is 
none, save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the 
gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should 

ide them up again in the earth. Behold, I have written 
upon these plates the very things which the brother of 
Jared saw; and there never was greater things made mani- 
fest, than that which was made manifest unto the brother 
of Jared; wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to 
write them; and I have written them. And he command- 
ed me that I should seal them up; and he also hath com- 


BOOK OF ETHER. 531 


manded ‘that I should seal up the interpretation thereof; 
wherefore I have sealed up the interpreters, according to 
the commandment of the Lord. - For the Lord said unto 
me, they shall not go forth unto the Gentiles until the day 
that they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean 
before the Lord; and in that day that they shall exercise 
faith in me, saith the Lord, even- as the brother of Jared did, 
that they may become sanctified in me, then will I manifest 
unto them the things which the brother of Jared saw, even 
to the unfolding unto them all my revelations, saith Jesus 
Christ, the Son of God, the Father of the heavens and of 
the earth, and all things that in them are. And he that 
will contend against the word of the Lord, let him be ac- 
cursed; and he that shall deny these things, let him be 
accursed; for unto them will I shew no greater things, 
saith Jesus Christ, for I am he who speaketh; and at my 
command the heavens are opened and are shut; and at my 
word, the earth shall shake; and at my command the in- 
habitants thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire; and 
he that believeth not my wore, believeth not my dis- 
ciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for 

e shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last day. 

ut he that believeth these things which I have spoken, 
him will I visit with the manifestations of my spirit; and 
he shall know and bear record. For because of my spirit, 
he shall know that these things are true; for it persuadeth 
men to do good; and whatsoever thing persuadoth men to 
do good, ia of me; for good cometh of none, save it be of 
me. Iam the same that leadeth men to all good; he that 
will not believe my words, will not believe me, that I amy; 
and he that will not believe me, will not believe the Father 
who sent me. For behold, I am the Father, I am the 
light, and the life, and the truth of the world. Come unto 
me, O ye Gentiles, and I will shew unto you the greater 
things, the knowledge which is hid up because of unbelief. 
Come unto me, O ye house of Isarel, and it shall be made 
manifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid 
up for you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath 
not come unto you, because of unbelief. Behold, when 
ye shall rend that vail of unbelief which doth cause you 
to remain in your awful state of wickedness and hardness 
of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great and 
marvelous things which have been hid up from the found- 
ation of the world from you; yea, when ye shall call 
upon the Father in my name, with a broken heart and a 
contrite spirit, then shall ye know that the Father hath 
remembered the covenant which he made unto your fathers, 


532 ROOK OF ETUER. 


O bouse of Israel; and then shall my revelations which I 
have caused to be written by my servant Jobn, be unfolded 
in the eyes of all the people. Remember, when ye we 
these things, ye shall know that the time is at hanad that 
they shall be made manifest in very deed; therefore, wher 
ye shall receive this record, ye may know that. the work 
of the Fatber has commenced upon all the face of the 
land. Therefore, repent all ye ends of the earth, and 
come unto me, and believe in my gospel, and be baptized 
in my name; for he that believeth, and is baptized, shall 
be saved; but he that believeth not, shall be dammed; and 
signs shall follow them that believe in my name. And 
blessed is he that ia found faithful unto my name, at the 
last day, for he shall be lifted up to dweil in the kingdom 
prepared for him from the foundation of the world. And 
ehold, it is I that hath spoken it, Amen. 


— æ- 


CHAPTER It. 


Awnp now I, Moroni, have writter the words which were 
commanded me, according to my memory; and I have 
told you the things which I have sealed up; therefore 
touch them not, in order that ye may translate; for that 
thing is forbidden you, except by and by it shall be wis. 
dom in God. And behold, ye may be privileged that ye 
may shew the plates unto those who shall assist to bring 
forth this work; and unto three shall they be shewn by 
the power of God: wherefore they shall know of a surety 
that these things are true. And in the mouth of three 
witnesses shall these things be established; and the testi- 
mony of three, and this work, in the which shall be shewn 
forth the power of God, and also his word, of which the 
Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost beareth record; 
and all this shall stand as a testimony against the world, 
at the last day. And if it so bs that they repent and 
come unto the Father in the name of Jesus, they shall be 
received into the kingdom of God. And now, if I have 
no authority for these things, judge ye, for ye ehall know 
that I have authority when ye shall see me, and we shall 
stand before God at the last dey. Amen. 








BOOK OF’ ETHER. §33 
CHAPTER III. 


. Ann now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record of Jared 
and his brother. For it came to pass after the Lord had 
prepared the stones which the brother of Jared had carried 
up into the mount, the brother of Jared came down out of 
the mount, and he did put forth the stories into the vessels 
which were prepared, one in each end thereof; and be- 
hold, they did give light unto the vessels thereof. And 
thus the Lord caused stones to shine in darkness, to give 
light unto mep, women and children, that they might not 
cross the great waters in darkness. 

And it came to pass that{mhen they had prepared all 
manner of food, that thereb hey might subsist upon the 
water, and also food for the cks and herds, and what- 
soever beast, or animal, or l that they should carry 
with them. And it came to pags that when they had done 
all these things, they got aboard of their vessels or barges, 
and set forth into the sea; commending themselves unto 
the Lord their God. And it e to pass that the Lord 
God caused that there should Purious wind blow upon 
the face of the waters, toward filial promised land: and 
thus they were tossed upon the whves of the sea before the 
wind. And it came to pass thit they were many times 
buried in the depths of the sea, because of the mountain 
waves which broke upon them, and alsa the great and 
terrible tempests whtch were caused by the fierceness of 
.the wind. ; 

And ‘it came to pass that when they were buried in the 
deep, there was no water that could hurt them, their ves- 
gels being tight like unto a dish, and also they were tight 
like urto the the ark of Noah; therefore when they were 
encompassed about by many waters, they did cry unto the 
Lord and he did bring them forth again upon the top of 
the waters. And it came to pass that the wind did never 
eease to blow towards the promised land, while they were 
upon the waters: and thus they were driven forth before 
the wind; and they did sing praises unto the Lord; yea, 
the brother of Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and 
he did thank and praise the Lord all the day long; and 
when the night came, they did not cease to praise the 
Lord. And thus they were driven forth; and no monster 
of the sea could break them, neither whale that could mar 
them; and they did have light continually, whether it was 
above the water or under the water. And thus they were 
driven forth, three hundred and forty and four days upon 

45 










S34 ROOK OF BERRA 


the water; and they did land upen the shore of the promis- 
od land. And when they had set their feet upon the ehores 
of the promised land, mney bowed themselves down upon 
the face of the land, and did humble themselves before the 
Lord, and did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because 
of the multitude of his tender mercies over them. 

And it came to pass that they went forth upon the face 
of the land, and began to till the earth. And Jared had 
four eons; and they were called Jacom, and Gilgah, aad 
Mahah, and Orihah. And the brother of Jared algo bogat 
sons and daughters. And the friends of Jered and hi 
brother, were in number about twenty and two souls; and 
they also begat sons and dguphters, before they came to 
the promised land; and thoro they began to be many. 
And they were taught to humbly hefore the ; 
ond they were also taught 


on high. 

And it came to pass that they pega to spread upon the 
face of the land, and multiply and to till the earth; and 
they did wax strong in thbeland- And the brother of Jared 
began to be old, and sawgbat he must soon go down to the 
grave; wherefore he sai Poto Jared, let us gather tageth- 
er our pore that Ye may number them, that we may 
know of them what they will desire of us before we go 
gown to our graves. And accordingly the people were 

athered together. Now the number of the sons and the 
daughters of the brother of Jared were twenty and two 
souls; and the number of the sons and daughters of Jared 
were twelve, he having four sons. And it came to pass 
that they did number their people; and after that they had 
numbered them, they did desire of them the things which 
they would that they should do before they went down to 
their graves. And it came to pass that-the people desired 
of them that they should anoint one of their sons to be a 
king over them. And now behold, this was grievous unto 
them. But the brother of Jared said unto them, surely, 
this thing leadeth into captivity. But Jared said unto his 
brother, suffer them that they may have.a king; and there- 
fore he said unto them, choose ye out from among our sous 
a king, even whom ye will. 

_And it came to pass that they chose even the first born 
of the brother of Jared; and his name was Pagag. Andit 
came to pass that he refused and would not be their king. 
And the people would that his father should constrain him; 
but his father would not; and he commanded them that 
they should constrain no man to be their king. And it 
came to pass that they chose all the brothers of Pegag, and 
they would not. And it came to pass that neither would 


















BOOK OF ETHER. ed 


the sons of Jared, even all, save it were one; and Oriheh, 
was anointed to be king over the people. And he be- 
pen to reign, and tho people began to prosper; and thgy | 

ecame exceeding rich. And it came to pass that Jared 
died, and his brother also. And it came to pass that Ori- 
hah did walk humbly before the Lord, and did remember 
how great things the Lord had done for his father, and als¢ 
taught his people how great things the Lord had done for 
their fathers. : i 

And it.came to pass that Orihah did execute judgment 
Ppon the land in righteousness all his days, whpse days 
were exceeding many: And he begat sonsand daughters; 
yea, he begat thirty and ope, among whom were twenty 
and three sons. And it came to pass that he also begat 
Kib in his old age. Andit came to pass that Kibseigned: 
in his stead; and Kib — Corihor. And when Corihor 
was thirty and two years old, he rebelled against his father, 
and went over and dwelt in the land of Nehor; and he 
begat sons and daughters; and they became exceeding 
fair; wherefore Corihor drew away many peopie after him. 
And when he had gathered together an army, he. came u 
unto the land of Moron where the king dwelt, and too 
him captive, which brought to pasg the saying of the 
brother af Jared, that they would be brought into captivity, 
Now the land of Moron where the king dwelt, was near 
the land which is called Desolation by the Nephites. And 
it came to pags that Kib dwelt in captivity, and his people, 
under Corihor his son. until he became exceeding old; 
nevertheless Kib begat Shule in his old age, while he was 
yet in captivity. 

And it came to pass that Shule was angry with his 
brother; and Shule waxed strong, and became mighty, as 
to the strength of a man; and was also mighty in judg- 
ment. Wherefore he came to the hill Ephraim, and he 
did moulten out of the hill,.and made swords out of steel 
for those whom he had drawn away with him; and af- 
ter he had armed them with swords, he returned to the 
city Nehor and gave battle ‘unto his brother Corihor, by 
which means he obtained the kingdom, and restored it unto 
his father Kib. And now because of the thing which 
Shule had done, his father bestowed upon him the king- 
dom; therefore he began to reign in the stead of his father. 
And it came to pags that he did execute judgment in right- 
gousness; and he did spread his kingdom upon all the face 
of the land, for the people had become exceeding numer- 
ous. And it came to pass that Shule also begat many sons 
and daughters. And Corihor repented of the many evils 


536 BOOK OF ETHER. 


which he had done; wherefore Shule gave him power in 
his kingdom. Aand it came to pass that Corihor had man 
sons and daughters. And among the sons of Corihor there 
was one whose name was Noah. PpS 

And it came to pass that Noah rebelled against Shule, 
the king, and algo his father Corthor, and drew away Co- 
hor his brother, and also all his brethren and many of the 

eople. And he gave battle unto Shule, the king, in which 
fe did obtain the land of their first inheritance; and he 
became a king over that part of the land, And it came to 

ass that. he gave battle again unto Shule the king; and 
Pe took Skule the king, and carried him away captive into 
Moron. And it came to pass as he was about to put him 
to death, the sons of Shule crept into the house of Noah 
by night and slew him, and broke down the door of. the 

rison and brought out their father, and placed him upon 
his throne in his own kingdom; wherefore'the son of Noah 
did build up his kingdom in his stead; nevertheless they 
did not gain power any more over Shule the king; and the 
people who were under ge reign of Shule the king, did 
prosper exceedingly and wax great. And the country 
was divided; and there were two kingdoms, the kingdom 
of Shule and the kingdom of Cohor, the son of Noah. 
And Cohor, the son of Noah, ¢aused that his people should 
give battle unto Shule, in which Shule did beat them, and 

id slay Cohor. And now Cohor had a son who was called 
Nimrod; and Nimrod gave up the kingdom of Cohor unto 
Shule, and he did gain favor in the eyes of Shule; 
wherefore Shule did bestow great favors upon him, and he 
did do in the kingdom of Shule according- to his desires; 
and also in the reign of Shule there came prophets among 
the people, wko were sent from the Lord, prophesying that 
the wickednees and idolatry of the people was bringing a 
curse upon the land, and they should be destroyed, if they 
did not repent. 

And it came to pass that the people did revile against 
the prophets, and did mock them. And it came to pass 
that king Shule did execute judgment against all those 
who did revile against the prophets; and he did execute a 
law throughout all the land, which gave power unto the 
prophets that they should go whithersoever they would; 
and by this cause the people were brought unto repent- 
ance. And because the people did repent of their iniqui- 
ties and idolatries, the Lord did spare them, and they be 
to prosper again in the land. And it came to pass that 
Shule begat sons and daughters in his oldage. And there 
were no more wars in the days of Shule; and he remem- 


ROOK OF. ETHER. SF 


bored the great things that the Lond had done for his fathers 
in bringing them across the great deep into the promised 
land; wherefore he did execute judgment in righteousnesa 
all his days. ) 

And it came to pass that he begat Omer, and Omer 
reigned in his stead. And Omer begat Jared; and Jared 
begat sons and daughters. And Jared rebelled against 
his father, and came and dwelt inthe land of Heth. And 
it came to pass that he did flatter many people, because of 
his cunning words, until he had gained the half of the 
kingdom. And when he had gained the half of the king- 
dom, he gave battle unto his father, and he did carry away 
his father into captivity, and did make him serve in captiv- 
ity. And now in the days of the reign of Omer, he was 
in captivity the half of hisdays. And it came to pass that 
he begat sons and daughters, among whom were Esrom 
and Coriantumr; and they were exceeding angry because 
of the doings of Jared their brother, insomuch that they 
did raise an army, and gave battle unto Jared. And 
it came to pass that they did give battle unto him by 
night. And it came to pass that when they had elain the 
army of Jared, they were about to slay him also; and he 
pleed with them that they would not slay him, and he 
would give up the kingdom unto his father. And it came 
to pass that they did grant unto him his life. And now 
Jared became exceeding sorrowful because of the loss of 
the kingdom, for he had set his heart upon the kingdom, 
and upon the glory of the world. Now the daughter of 
Jared being exceeding expert, and seeing the sorrows of 
her father, thought to devise a plan whereby she could re~- 
deem the kingdom unto her father. Now the daughter of 
Jared wag exceeding fair. And it came to pass that she 
did talk with her father, and said unto him, whereby hath 
my father so much sorrow? Hath he not read the record 
which our fathers brought across the great deep? Behold, 
ig there not an account concerning them of old, that they 
by their secret plans did obtain kingdoms and great glory? 
And now theretore, let my father send for Akish, the son 
of Kimnor; and behold, I am fair, and I will dance before 
him, and I will please him, that he will desire me to wife; 
wherefore if he shall desire of thee that ye shall give unto 
him me to wife, then shall ye say, I will give her if ye 
will bring unto me the head of my father, the king. And 
now Omer wasa friend to Akish, wherefore when Jared 
had sont for Akish, the daughter of Jared danced before 
him, that she pleased him, insomuch that he desired her to 
wife. And it came to pass that he said unto Jared, give 





538 BOOK OF ETHER. 


her unto me to wife. And Jared said unto him, I wiil 
ivo her unto you, if ye will bring unto me the head of my 
father, the king. Anditcame to pass that Akish gather- 
ed in unto the house of Jared all his kinsfolks, and said 
unto them, will ye swear unto me that ye will be faithful 
unto me in the thing which I shall desire of you. And 
it came to pass that they all sware unto him, by the God of 
heaven, and also by the heavens, and also by the earth, 
and by their heads, that whoso should vary from the assist- 
ance which Akish desired, should lose his head; and 
whoso should divulge whatsoever thing Akish made known- 
unto them, the same should lose his life. And it came to 
pass that thus they did agree with Akish. And Akish did 
administer unto them the oaths which were given by them 
of old, who also sought power, which had been handed 
down even from Cain, who was a murderer from the be- 
ginning. And they were kept up by the power of tho 
devil to administer these oaths unto the people, to keep 
them in darkness, to help such as sought power, to gain 
power, and to murder, and to plunder, and to lie, and to 
commit all manner of wickedness and whoredoms. And 
it was the daughter of Jared who put it into his heart to 
search up these things of old; and Jared put it into the 
heart of Akish; wherefore Akish administered it unto his 
kindreds and friends, leading them away by fair promises 
to do whatsoever thing he desired. And it came to pass 
that they formed a secret combination, even as they of old; 
which combination is most abominable and wicked above 
all, in the sight of God; for the Lord worketh not in se- 
cret combinations, neither doth he will that man should 
shed blood, but in all things hath forbidden it, from the 
beginning of man. And now I, Moroni, do not write the 
manner of their oaths and combinations, for it hath been 
made known unto me that they are had among a!i people, 
and they ore had among the Lamanites, and they have 
caused the destruction of this people of whom I am 
now speaking, and also the destruction of the people 
of Nephi; and whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret 
combinations, to get power and gain, until they shall spread 
over the nation, behold, they shall be destroyed, for the 
Lord will not suffer that the blood of his saints, which 
shall be shed by them, shall always cry unto him from the 
ground for vengeance upon them, and yet he avenge them 
not; wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that 
these things should be shewn unto you, that thereby ye 
may repent of your sins, and suffer not that these murder- 
ous combinations shall get above you, which are built up 


_ , BOOK OF ETHER. 539 


to get power and gain, and the work, yea, even the work 
of destruction come upon you; yea, even the sword of the 
justice of the eternal God, shall fall upon you, to your 
overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer these things 
to be; wherefore the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall 
see these things come among you, that ye shall awake to 
a sense of your awful situation, because of this secret 
combination which shall be among you, or wo be unto it, 
because of the blood of them who have been slain; for 
they cry from the dust for vengeance upon it, and also 
upon those who build it up. For it cometh to pass that 
whoso buildeth it up, seeketh to overthrow the freedom of 
all lands, nations and countries: and it bringeth to pass 
the destruction of all people, for it is built up by the devil, 
who is the father of all lies; even that same liar who bè- 
guiled our first parents; yea, even that same liar who hath 
caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who 
hath hardened the hearts of men, that they have murdered 
the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the 
beginning. Wherefore I, Moroni, am commanded to 
write these things, that evil may be done away, and that 
the time may come that satan may have no power upon 
the hearts of the children of men, but that they may be per- 
suaded to do good continually, that they may come unto 
the fountain of all righteousness and be saved. 


24 


CHAPTER IV. 


- Anp now I, Moroni, proceed with my record. There- 
fore behold, it came to pass that because of the secret 
combinations of Akish and his friends, behold they did 
overthrow the kingdom of Omer; nevertheless the Lord 
was merciful unto Omer, and also to his sons and to his 
capex ube who did not seek his destruction. And the 
Lord warned Omer in a dream that he should depart out 
of the land; wherefore Omer departed out of the land with 
his family, and traveled many days, and came over and 
passed by the hill of Shim, and came over by the place 
where the Nephites were destroyed, and from thence east- 
ward, and came toa place which was called Ablom, by 
the seashore, and there he pitched his tent, and also his 
sons and his daughters, and all his household, save it 

were Jared and his family. 
. And it came to pass that Jared was anointed king over 


A] ‘poo OF sinik. 


the people, by the hand of wickedness; and he gave trito 
Akish his daughter to wife. And it came to pass that 
Akish sought the life of his father-in-law; and he applied 
unto those whom he had sworn by the oath of the ancients, 
and they obtained the head of his father-in-law, as he sat 
upon his throne, giving audience to his people; for so great 
had been the spreading of this wicked and secret society, 
that it had corrupted the hearts of all the peopte; therefore 
Jared was murdered upon his threne, and Akish reigned 
in hisstead. And it came to pass that Akish began to be 
jealous of his son, therefore he shut him up in prison, and 
kopt him upon little or no food, until he had suftered death. 
And now the brother of him that suffered death, (and his 
neme was Nimreh,) was angry with his father, because 
of that which his father had done unto his brother. And 
it came to pass that Nimrah gathered together a small 
number of men, and fled out of the land, and eame over 
and dwelt with Omer. And it came to pass that Akish 
begat other sons, and they won the hearts of the people, 
notwithstanding they had sworn unto him to do alt man- 
ner of iniquity, according io that which he desired. Now 
the people of Akish were desirous for gain, even as Akish 
was desirous for power; wherefore the sons of Akish did 
offer them money, by which means they drew away the 
more part of the people after them; and there began to be 
a war between the sons of Akish and Akish, which lasted 
for the space of many years; yea, unto the destruction of 
nearly all the people of the kingdom; yea, even all, save 
it were thirty souls, and they who fled with the house of 
Omer; wherefore Omer was restored again to the land of 
his inheritance. And it came to pass that Omer began to 
be old, nevertheless, in his old age he begat Emer; ee) 
he anointed Emer to be king to reign in his stead. An 
after that he had anointed Emer to be king, he saw peace 
in the land for the space of two years, and he died, having 
seen exceeding many days, which were full of sorrow. 
And it came to pass that Emer did reign in his stead, arid 
did fill the steps of his father. And the Lord began again 
fo take the curse from off the land, and the house of 
mer did prosper exceedingly under the reign of Emer; 
and in the space of sixty and two years, they had become 
exceeding strong, insomuch that they became exceeding 
fich, having all manner of fruit, and of grain, and of silks, 
tnd of fine — and of gold, and of silver, and of precious 
things, and also all manner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, 
and of sheep, and of swine, and of goats, and also mar 


Ottier kind of animals whieh were useful for te food o 





t 


BOOK OF ETHER. - 5u 


man; and they also had horses, and asses, and there were - 


elephants, and cureloms, and cumoms: all of which were 
useful unto man, and more especially the i aes and 
eureloms, and cumoms. And thus the Lord did pour out 
his blessings upon this land, which was choice above ail 
other lands; and he commanded that whogo should possess 
the land, should possess it unto the Lord, or they should 
be destroyed when ‘hoy were ripened in iniquity ; for upon 
such, saith the Lord, I will pour out the fullness of my 
wrath. And Emer did execute judgment in righteous- 
nese, all his days, and he begat many sons and daughters; 
and he begat Coriantum: and he anointed Coriantum to 
feign in his stead. And after he had anointed Coriantum 
to reign in his stead, he lived four years, and he saw peace 
in the land; yea, and he even saw the Son of righteous- 
noss, and did rejoice and glory in his day; and he died if 
peace. And it came to pass that Coriantum did walk in 
the steps of his father, and did build many mighty cities, 
and did administer that which was good unto his people, 
in all his days. And it came to pass that he had no chil- 
dren, even until he was exceeding old. And it came to 
pass that his wife died, being an hundred and two years 
old. And it came te pass that Coriantum took to wife, 
in his old age, a young maid, and begat sons and daugh- 
ters; wherefore he lived until he was an hundred and forty 
and two years old. And it came to pass that he begat 
Com, aod Com reigned in hie stead; and he reigned forty 
and nine years, and he begat Heth; and he also begat other 
sons and daughters. And the people had spread again 
over all the face of the land, and there began again to be 
an exceeding great wickedness upon the face of the land, 
and Heth began to embrace the secret plans again of old, 
to destroy his father. And it came to pgss that he did de- 
throne his father; for he slew him with tie own sword: and 
he did reign in his stead. And there came prophets in the 
land again, crying repentance unto them; that they must 
prepare the way of the Lord, or there should come a curse 
upon the face of the land; yea, even there should be a 
great famine, in which they should be destroyed, if they 

id not repent. But the people believed not the words of 
the prophets, but they cast thera out; and some of them 
they cast iato pits, and left them to perish. And it came 
to pass that that they done all these things according to 
the commandment of the king Heth. And it came to pass 
that there began to be a great dearth upon the land, and 
the inhabitants began to be a exceeding fast, be- 


542 BOOK OF ETHER. 


cause of the dearth, for there was no rain upon the face of 
the earth; and there came forth poisonous serpents also 
upon the face of the land, and did poison many people. 
And it came to pass that their flocks began to flee betore 
the poisonous serpents, towards the land southward, which 
was called by the Nephites, Zarahemla. And it came to 
pass that there were many of them which did perish by 
the way: nevertheless, there were some which fled into 
the land southward. And it came to pass that the Lord 
did cause the serpents that they should pursue them no 
more, but that they should hedge up the way, that the peo- 
ple could not pass; that whoso should attempt to pass, 
might fall by the poisonous serpents. And it came to pass 
that the people did follow the course of the beasts, and did 
devour the carcasses of them which fell by the way, until 
‘they had devoured them all. Now when the people saw 
that they must perish, they began to repent of their in- 
iquities, and cry unto the Lord. And it came to pass that 
when they had humbled themselves sufficiently before the 
Lord, he did send rain upon the face of the earth, and the 
people began to revive again, and there began to be fruit 
in the north countries, and in all the countries round about. 
And the Lord did shew forth his power unto them, in 
reserving them from famine. And it came to pass that 
shez, who was a descendent of Heth, for Heth had perish- 
ed by the famine, and all his household, save it were Shez; 
wherefore Shez began to build up again a broken people. 
And it came to pass that Shez did remember the destruc- 
tion of his fathers, and he did build up a righteous king- 
dom, for he remembered what the Lord had done in bring- 
ing Jared and his brother across the deep; and he did walk 
in the ways of the Lord, and he begat sonsand daughters, 
And his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did rebel against 
him; nevertheless, Shez was smitten by the hand of a rob- 
ber, because of his exceeding riches, which brought peace 
again unto his father. And it came to pass that his father 
did build up many cities upon the face of the land, and 
the poopie began again to spread over all the face of the 
land. And Shez did live to an exceeding old age; and he 
begat Riplakish, and he died. And Riplakish reigned ia 
his stead. And it came to pass that Riplakish did not do 
that which was right in the sight of the Lord, for he did 
have many wives and concubines, and did lay that upon 
men’s shoulders which was grievous to be borne; yea, he 
did tax them with heavy taxes; and with the taxes he did 
build many spacious buildings. And he did erect him an 
exceeding beautiful throne, and he did build many prisons, 


Cie eT re = 


BOOK OF ETHER. 543 


and whoso would not be subject unto taxes, he did cast 
into prison; and whoso was not able to pay taxes, he did 
cast into prison; and he did cause that they should labor 
continually for their support; and whoso retused to labor, 
he did cause to be put to death; wherefbre ho did obtain 
_ all his fine work; yea, even his fine gold he did cause to 
be refined in prison, and all manner of fine workmanship 
he did cause to be wrought in prisons. And it came to 
pass that he did afflict the people with his whoredoms and 
abominations; and when he had reigned for the space of 
forty and two years, the people did raise up in rebellion 
against him, and there began to be war again in the land, 
insomuch that Riplakish was killed, and his descendants 
were driven out of the land. 

. And it came to pass after the space of many years, Mo- 
rianton, (he being a descendant of Ri lakish 9 gathered 
together an army of outcasts, and went forth and gave bat- 
tle unto the people; and he gained power over many cities; 
and the war became exceeding sore, and did last for the 
space of many years, and he did gain power over all the 
land, and did establish himself king over all the land. And 


after that he had established himself king, he did ease the ` 


burden of the people, by which he did gain favor in the 
eyes of the people, and they did anoint him to be their 
king. And he did do justice unto the people, but not unto 
himeelf, because of his many ehoredoie: wherefere he 
waa cut off from the presence of the Lord. And it came 
to pass that Morianton built up many cities, and the people 
became exceeding rich under his reign, both in buildings, 
and in gold, and in silver, and in raising grain, and in flocks, 
and herds, and such things which had been restored unto 
them. And Morianton did live to an exceeding great age, 
and then he begat Kim; and Kim did reign in the stead of 
his father; and he did reign eight years, and his father died. 
And it came to pass that Kim did not reign in righteous- 
ness, wherefore he was not favored of the Lord. And his 
brother did raise up in rebellion against him, by which he 
did bring him into captivity; and he did remain in captivity 
all his days; and he begat sons and daughters in captivity; 
and in his old age he begat Levi, and he died. 

And it came to pass that Levi did serve in captivity after 
the death of his father, for the space of forty and two years. 
And he did make war against the king of the land, by 
which he did obtain unto himself the kingdom. And after 
he had obtained unto himself the kingdom, he did that 
which was right in the sight of the Lord; and the people 
did prosper in the land, and he did live to a good old the, 


$44 ROOK OF ETRER. 


and meee sons and daughters; and he also begat Corom, 
whom he anointed king in his stead. And it came to pass 
that Corom did that which was good in the sight of the 
Lord, all his days; and he begat many sons and daughters; 
and after he had ‘seen many days, he did pass away, even 
like unto the rest of the earth; and Kish reigned in his 
stead. And it came to pass that Kish passed away also, and 
Lib reigned in his stead. And it came to pass that Lib also 
did that which was good in the sight of the Lord. Andin 
the days of Lib the poisonous serpents were destroyed; 
wheretore they did go into the land aouthward, to hunt 
food for the people of the land; for the land was covered 
with animals of the forest. And Lib also himself became 
a great hunter. And they built a great city by the narrow 
neck of and, by the place where the sea divides the land. 
And they did preserve the land southward for a wilderness, 
to get game. And the whole face of the land northward 
was covered with inhabitants; and they were exceeding 
industrious, and they did buy and sell, and traffic one wi 
another, that they might get gain. And they did work in 
all manner of ore, and they did make go d, and silver, and 
iron, and braes, and all manner of metals; and they did dig 
it out of the earth; wherefore they did cast up mighty 
heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and o 
iron, and of copper. And they did work all manner of fine 
work.. And they did have silks, and fine twined linen; 
and they did work all manner of cloth, that they might 
elothe themselves from their nakedness. And they did 
make all manner of tools to till the earth, both to plough 
and to sow, to reap and to hoe, and aiso to thrash. And 
they did make all manner of tools with which they did 
work their beasts. And they did make all manner of 
weapons of war. And they did work all manner of work 
of exceeding curious workmenship. And never could be 
a people more blessed than were they, and more prospered 
by the hand of the Lord. And they were in a land that 
was choice above all lands, for the Lord had spoken it. 
And it came to pasa that Lib did live — and be- 
gat sons and daughters; and he also begat Hearthom. And 
it came to pass that Hearthom reigned in the stead of his 
father. And when Hearthom had reigned twenty and four 
poems, behold the kingdom was taken away from him. And 
e served many years in captivity; yea, even all the re- 
mainder of his days. And he begat Heth, and Heth lived 
kn captivity all hie days. And Heth begat Aaron, and 
Aaron dwelt in captivity all his-days; and he begat Amni- 
Ga$dah, and Amnigaddah also dwek in captivity all his 


— —— 


BOOK OF ETHER. 545 


days; and he begat Coriantum, and Coriantum dwelt in 
captivity all his days; and he begat Com. And it came to 
ass that Com drew away the half of the kingdom. And 
he ‘reigned over the half of the kingdom forty and two 
years: and he went to battle against the king Amgid, and 
they fought for the space of many years, during which 
time Com gained power over Amgid, and obtained power 
over the remainder of the kingdom. And in the days of 
Com there began to be robbers in the land; and they 
adopted the old plans, and administered oaths after the 
manner of the ancients, and sought again to destroy the 
kingdom. Now Com did fight against them much; nev- 
ertheless, he did not prevail against them. And there came 
also in the days of Com many prophets, and prophesied of 
the destruction of that great people, except they should 
repent and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders 
and wickedness. 
And it came to pass that the prophets were rejected by 
the people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the 
people sought to destroy them; and they prophesied unto 
Com many things; and he was blessed in all the remain- 
der of his days. And he lived to a good old age, and be- 
at Shiblom; and Shiblom reigned in hisstead. And the 
Frother of Shiblom rebelled against him; and there began 
to be an exceeding great war in all the land. 

And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom caused 
that all the prophets who prophesied of the destruction of 
the people, should be put to death; and there was great 
calamity in all the land, for they had testified that a greater 
curse should come apon the land, and also upon the peo- 
ple, and that there s 
them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the 
earth; and their bones should become as heaps of earth 
upon the face of the land, except they should repent of 
their wickedness. And they hiearkene not unto the voice 
of the Lord, because of their wicked combinations; where- 
fore there began to be wars and contentions in all the land, 
and also many famines and pestilences, insomuch that there 
was a great destruction, euch an one as never had been 
known upon the face of the earth, and all this came to pass 
in the days of Shiblom. And the people began to aa 
of their iniquity; and inasmuch as they did, the Lord did 
have mercy on them. 

And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth 
was brought into captivity; and did dwell in captivity all 
his days. And it came a that Ahah, his son, did 


ould be a great destruction among’ 


pee BOOK OF ETHER. 
obtain the er ET and he did reign over the people al] 

is days. And he did do all manner of iniquity in his day 

y which he did cause the shedding of much blood; an 
few were his days. And Ethem, being a descendant of 
Ahah, did obtain the kingdom; and he also did do that 
which was wicked in his days. And it came to pass in 
the days of Ethem, there came many prophets and proph- 
esied again unto the people; yea, they did prophesy that 
the Lord would utterly destroy them from off the face of 
the earth, except they repented of their iniquities. And 
it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts, and 
would not hearken unto their words; and the prophets 
Mourntd and withdrew from among the people. 

And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgment 
in wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron. And it 
came to pass that Moron did reign in his stead; and Mo- 
ron did that which was wicked before the Lord. And it 
came to pass that there arose a rebellion among the peo- 
ple, because of that secret combination which was built 
up to get power and gain; and there arose a mighty man 
among them in iniquity, and gave battle unto Moron in 
which he did overthrow the half of the kingdom; and 
he did maintain the half of the kingdom for many years. 
And it came to pass that Moron did overthrow him, and 
did obtain the kingdom again. And it came to pass that 
there arose another mighty man; and be was a descendant 
of the brother of Jared And it came to pass that he did 
overthrow Moron and obtain the kingdom; wherefore 
Moron dwelt in captivity all the remainder of his days; 
and he begat Coriantor. | 

And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all 
his days. And in the days of Coriantor there also came 
many prophets, and prophesied of great and marvelous 
things, and cried repentance unto the people, and except 
they should repent, the Lord God would execute judgment 

inst them to their utter destruction; ond that the Lord 

od would send or bring forth another people to possess 

the land, by his power, after the manner which he brought 

their fathers. And they did reject all the words of the 

prophets, because of their secret society and wicked abom- 

inations. And it came to pass that Coriantor begat Ether, 
and he died, having dwelt in captivity all his days. 


BOOK OF ETHER, 547 
CHAPTER V. 


AND. it came to pass that the days of Ether were in the 
days of Coriantumr; and Coriantumr was king over all the 
land. And Ether was a prophet of the Lord; wherefore 
Ether came forth in the days of Coriantumr, and began. to 
prophesy unto the people, for he could not be restrained 
because of the spirit of the Lord which was in him; for he 
did cry from the morning, even until the going down of 
the sun, exhorting the people to believe in God unto 
repentance, lest they should be destroyed, saying unto 
them, that by faith all things are fulfilled; wherefore, whoso 
believeth in God, might with surety hope for a better world, 
yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which hope 
cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, 
which would make them sure and steadfast, always abound- 
ing in good works, being led to glorify God. And it came 
to pass that Ether did npa great and marvelous things 
unto the people, which they did not believe, because they 
gaw them not. And now I, Moroni, would speak somewhat 
concerning these things; I would shew unto the world that 
faith is things which are hoped for and not seen; where- 
fore, dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no wit- 
ness until after the trial of your faith, for it was by faith 
that Christ shewed himself.unto our fathers, after he had 
risen from the dead; and he shewed not himself unto them, 
until after they had faith in him; wherefore it must needs 
de that some had faith in him, for he shewed himself not 
nto the world. But because of the faith of men, he has 
hewn himself unto the world, and glorified the name of 
the Father, and prepared a way that thereby others might 
be partakers of the heavenly gift, that — ht hope for 
those things which they have not seen; wherefore ye may 
also have ho 38, and be partakers of the gift, if ye will but 
have faith. Behold, it was by faith that they of old were 
called after the holy order of God; wherefore: by faith, 
was the law of Moses given. Butinthe gift of the Son, hath 
God prepared a more excellent way, aad it is by faith that 
it hath been fulfilled; for if there be no faith among the 
children of men, God can do no miracle among them; 
wherefore he shewed not himself until after their faith. 
Behold, it was the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused 
the prison to tumble to the earth. Behold, it was the faith 
of Nephi and Lehi, that wrought the change upon the La- 
manites, that they were baptized with fire and with the 
Holy Ghost. Behold, it was the faith of Ammon and his 
‘brethren, which wrought so great a miracle among the 


L 


` 


548 BOOK OF ETHER. 


Lamanites; yea, and even all they who wrought miracles, 
wrought them by faith, even those who were before Christ, 
and also them who were after. Andit was by faith that 
the three disciples obtained a promise that they should not 
taste of death; and they obtained not the promise until 
after their faith. And neither at any time hath any wrought 
miracles until after their faith; wherefore they first believ- 
ed in the Son of God. And there were many whoee faith 
was so exceeding strong even before Christ came who 
could not be kept from within the veil, but truly saw with 
their eyes the things which they had beheld with an 
eye of faith, and they were glad. And behold we have 
seen in this record, that one of these was the brother of 
Jared; for so great was his faith in God, that When God 
_ put forth his finger, he could not hide it from the sight of 
the brother of Jared, because of his word which he had 
poa unto him, which word he had obtained by faith. 
nd after the brother of Jared, had beheld the finger of 
the Lord, because of the promise which the brother of Jar- 
ed had obtained by faith, the Lord could not withhold any 
thing from his sight; wherefore he shewed him all things, 
for he could no longer be kept without the evil. And itis 
by faith that my fathers have obtained the promiso that 
these things should come unto their brethren through the 
Gentiles; therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, 
even Jesus Christ. And I said unto him, Lord, the Gen- 
tiles will mock at these things, because of our weakness in 
writing; for Lord thou hast made us mighty in word by 
faith, but thou hast not made us mighty in writing; for 
thou hast made al} this people that they could speak much, 
because of the Holy Ghost which thou hast given them; 
and thou hast made us that we could write but little, be- 
couse of the awkwardness of our hands. Behold, thou 
hast not made us mighty in writing like unto the brother 
of Jared, for thou madest him that the things which he 
wrote, were migbty even as thou art, unto the overpower- 
ing of man to readthem. Thou hast also made our words 
powerful and great, even that we cannot write them; 
wherefore, when we write, we behold our weakness, and 
stumble because of the placing of our words; and I fear 
lest the Gentiles shall mock at our words, And when I 
had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying, fools mock, 
but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufħcient for the 
meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness; 
and if men come unto me, I will shew unto them their 
weakness. I give unto men weakness, that they may be 
humble; and pry grace is eufficient for all men that hum- 


BOOK OF ETARE. 540 


ble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves 
before me, and have faith in me, then will I make weak 
things become strong unto them. Behold; I will shew 
unto the Gentiles their weakness, and I will shew. unto 
them that faith, hope, and charity, bringeth unto me the 
fountain of all righteousness. And I, Moroni, having 
heard these words, was comforted, and said, O Lord, thy 
righteous will be done, for I know that thou workest unto 
the children of men according to their faith; for the broth- 
er of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin, remove, and it 
was removed. And if he had not had faith, it would not 
have moved; wherefore thou workest after men have faith; 
for thus did thou manifest thyself unto thy disciples. For 
after they had faith, and did speak in thy name, thou didst 
shew thyself unto them in great power; and I also remem- 
ber that thon hast said that thou hast prepared a house for 
man; yea, even among the mansions of thy Father, in 
which man might have a more excellent hope; wherefore 
man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the 
place which thou hast —— Ahd again I remember 
that thou’ hast said that thou hast loved the world, even 
unto the laying down of thy life for the world, that thou 
mnightest take it again to prepare a place for the children 
of men. And now I know that this love which thou hast 
had for the children of men, is charity; wherefore, except 
men shall have charity, they cannot inherit that place which 
thou hast prepared in the mansions of thy father. Where- 
fore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if the 
Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, that 
thou wilt prove them, and take away their.talent, yea, even 
that which they have received, and give unto them who 
shall have more —— 

And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he 
would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have 
charity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, 
if they have not charity, it mattereth not unto thee, thou 
hast been faithful; wherefore thy garments shall be made 
clean. And because thou hast seen thy weakness, thou 
shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the 
place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father. 
And now I, Moront, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yen, 
and also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall 
meet before the judgment seat of Christ, where all men 
shall know that my garments are not spotted with your 
blood; and then shall ye know that I have seen Jesus, and 
that he hath talked with me face to face, and that he told 
me in plain humility, even as a man telleth another in mine 


560 .BQOK OF ETHER. 


own language, concerning these things; and only a few 
have I written, because of my weakness in writing. And 
now I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the 
rophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the 
Shar. and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, 
which beareth record of them, may be, and abide in you 
forever. Amen. 


<< 72> CO 


CHAPTER VI. 


Anp now I, Moroni, proceed to finish my record cor- 
cerning the destruction of the people of whom I have been 
writing. For behold, they rejected all the words of Ether; 
for he truly told them of all things, from the beginning of 
man; and that after the waters had receded from off the 
face of this land, it became a choice land above all other 
Jands, a chosen land of the Lord; wherefore the Lord 
would have that all men should serve him, who dwell upon 
the face thereof; and that it was the place of the New 
Jerusalem, which should come down out of heaven, and 
the holy sanctuary of the Lord. Behold, Ether saw the 
days of Christ, and he spake concerning a New Jerusalem 
upon thisland; and he spake also concerning the house of 
Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come; 
after it should be destroyed, it should be built up again a 
holy city unto the Lord; wherefore it could not be a New 
Jerusalem, for it had been in a time of old, but it should 
be built up again, and become a holy city of the Lord: and 
it should be built up unto the house of Israel; and thata 
New Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto 
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there 
has been a type; for as Joseph brought his father down 
into the land of Egypt, even so he died there; wherefore 
the Lord brought a remnant of the seed of Joseph out of 
the land of Jerusalem, that he might be merciful unto the 
seed of Joseph, that they should perish not, even as he was 
merciful unto the father of Joseph, that he should perish 
not; wherefore the remnant of the house of Joseph shall 
be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their in- 
heritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the 
Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old; and they shall no 
more be confounded, until the end come, when the earth 
shall pass away. And there shall be a new heaven and a 
new earth; and they shall be like unto the old, save the 








BOOK OF ETHER. 561 


old have passed away, and all things have become new. 
And then cometh the New Jerusalem; and blessed are they 
who dwell therein, for it is they whoge garments are white 
through the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who 
are numbered among the remnant of the seed of Joseph, 
who were of the house of Israel. And then also cometh 
the Jerusalem of old; and the inhabitants thereof, blessed 
are they, for they have been washed in the blood of the 
Lamb; and they are they who were scattered and gather- 
ed in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the 
north countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the 
covenant which God made with their father Abraham. 
And when these things come, bringeth to pass the scrip- 
ture which saith, there are they who were first, who shail 
be last; and there are they who were last who shall be first. 

And I was about to write more, but Iam forbidden; but 
great and marvelous were the prophecies of Ether, but they 
esteemed him aa nought, and cast him out, and he hid 
himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he 
went forth viewing the things which should come upon 
the people. And as he dwelt in the cavity of a rock, he 
made the remainder of this record, viewing the destruc- 
tions which came upon the people by night. And it came 
to pass that in that same year which he was cast out from 
among the people, there began to be a great war among 
the people, for there were many who rose up,who were 
mighty men, and sought to destroy Coriantumr, by their 
secret plans of wickodueee, of which hath been spoken. 
And now Coriantumr, having studied himself in all the arts 
of war, and all the cunning of the world, wherefore he 
gave battle unto them who sought to destroy him; but he 
repented not, neither his fair sons nor daughters; neither 
the fair sons and daughters of Cohor; neither the fair sons 
and daughters of Corihor; and in fine, there was none of 
the fair sons and daughters upon the face of the whole 
earth, who repented of their sins; wherefore it came to 
pass that in the first year that Ether dwelt in the cavity of 
a rock, there was many people who were slain by the 
sword of those secret combinations fighting against Co- 
Tiantumr, that they might obtain the king om. And it 
eame to pass that the sons of Coriantumr fought much 
and bled much. Andin the second year, the word of the 
Lord came to Ether, that he should go and pie hesy unto 
Coriantumr, that ifhe would repent, and all his household, 
the Lord would give unto him his kingdom, and spare the 
people, otherwise they should be destroyed, and all his 

ouzehold, save it were himself, and he should only live 


aar DOOR OF RETENE. 


to ese the fulfilling of tbe prophecies whick had been 
ken concerning another people receiving the land for 
eir inheritance; and Coriantumr should receive a bunal 
by them; and every soul should be destroyed save it wers 
Coriantumr. And it came to pase that Corirantumr pe 
pented not, neither his household, neither the people; and 
the wars ceased not; and they sought to kill er, but he 
fled from before them, and hid again in the cavity of the 
tock. And it came to pass that there arose up Shared, and 
he also gave battle unto Coriantumr; and he did beat him, 
insomuch that in the third year he did bring him inte 
captivity. And the sons of Coriantumr, in the fourth year, 
did beat Shared, and did obtain the kingdom again uate 
their father. Now there began to be a war upon all the 
face of the land, every man with hia band, fighting for 
that which he desired. And there were robbers, and ia 
fine, all manner of wickedness upon all the face of the 
land. And it came to pass that Coriantamr was exceed- 
ing angry with Shared, and he went against him with his 
armies, to battle; and they did meet in great anger; 
they did meet in the valley of Gilgal; and the battle be- 
came exceeding sore. And it came to pass that Shared 
fought against him for the space of three days. And it 
came to pass that Coriantumr beat him, and did pursue 
him until he came to the plains of Heshlon. And it came 
to pas that Shared gave him battle again upon the plains; 
and behold, he did deat Coriantumr, and drove him back 
again to the valley of Gilgal. And Coriantumr gave Sha- 
red battle again in the valley of Gilgal, in which he beat 
Bhared, and slew him. And Shared wounded Coriantumr 
in his thigh, that he did not go to battle again for the space 
of two years, in which time all the — upon the face 
of the ‘land were shedding blood, and there was none to 
restrain them. And now there began to be a great curse 
upon sil the land, because of the iniquity of the people, in 
which, if a man should lay his tool or his sword upon his 
shelf, or upon the place whither he would keep it, and be- 
hold, upon the morrow, he could not find it, so great was 
the curse upon the land. Wherefore every man did cleave 
unto that which was his own, with his hands, and would 
not borrow, neither would he lend; and every man kept 
the hilt of his sword thereof, in his right hand, in the de- 
fence of his property and his own lifo, and of hie wives 
and children. And now after the space of two years, and 
‘after the death of Shared, behold, there arose the brother 
of Shared, and he gave battle unto Coriantumr, in which 
Coriantumr did beat him, and did pursue him to the wild- 


DOOR: OF ETERN. S 


erness of Akish. And it came to pe that the brotlror of! 
Shared did give battle unto him in the wildernessof Akiehy 
and the battle became exceéding sore, and many thous 
sands fell by the sword. And it came to pass that Corian« 
tumr.did lay siege to the wilderness, and the brother:of! 
Shared did march forth out of the wilderness by night; 
and slew a part of the army of Coriantumr, as they were 
drunken. And he came forth to the land of Moron, and 
placed himself upon the throne of Coriantumr. And. it: 
ozme to pasa that Coriantumr dwelt with his army in-the 
wilderness, for the space of two years, in which he did 
receive great strength to his army. Now. the: brother of; 

ed; whose name was. Gilead, also received great 
strength to his army, because of secret combinations.. 
And it came to pass that his high priest murdered him as 
hesat upon his throne. And it came to pass that one of. 
the secret combinations. murdered him in.a secret pass, 
amd obtained unto himself the kingdom; and his name was: 
Lib; and Lib was a.man of greet stature, more than any. 
other. man among: all: the people. And it came to pass 
that in the first year-of Lib, Coriantumr came up unto the: 
land of Moron, and. gave battle upto Lib, And it came: 
to pass that he fought with Lib, in which Lib did smite: 
npon his arm that he was wounded; nevertheless, the army. 
of Coriantumr did press forward upon Lib, that he fled te: 
the borders upon the seashore. And it came. to pass: that: 
Coriantumr pursued him; and Lib gave: battle unto him: 
upor the. seashore. And it came to pass that Lib.did smite; 
the army of Coriantumr, that they fled again to the wild». 
erness of Akish. And it came to pass.that Lib did:pursue, 
him until he came to the plains of Agosh. And Corien- 
tumr had taken all the people with him, as he fled before. 
Lib, in that quarter of the land whither he fled, And: 
when. he had come to the plains of Agosh, he gave battle: 
vata Lib, and he.smote.upom him until he died; neverthe-. 
lees, the brother of Lib did come, against Coriantumr in: 
the stead thereof, and the battle became. exceeding. sore,. 
is the which Coriantumr fled again before the army of the: 
brother of Lib.. Now the name of the brother of Lib was, 
called Shiz. Amd it came to pass that Shiz puraued after: 
Goriantumr, and he did. overthrow, many cities, and. he did. 
slay both women and. children, and he did burn the cities 
thereof; and there went.a fear of Shiz threughout.all the: 
land; yea, a.cry went forth throughout the land, whe can, 
stand before the army of Shiz? Behold, he sweepeth the. 
earth before him! And it — to peas. that the people 

4 ` 


P a 


564 BOOK’ OF ETRER~ 


began to.flock — in armies, throughout all ‘the face 
of the land. And they were divided, and a part of them 
fled to the army of. Shiz, and a part of them fled to the 
army of Coriantumr. And so great ‘and lasting had been 
the war, and so long had been the scene of bloodshed and 
carnage, that the whole face of the land was covered with 
the bodies of the dead; and so swift and speedy was the 
war, that there was norie left to bury the dead, but th 
did march forth from the shedding of blood, to the shed- 
ding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men, women and 
children, strewed apon the face of the land, to become a 
prey to the worme of the flesh; and the scént thereof went 
forth upon the face of the land, even upon all the face of 
the land; wherefore the people became troubled by day 
and by night, because of the scent thereof; nevertheless, 
Shiz did not cease to pursue Coriantunir, for he had sworn 
to avenge himself upon Coriantumr of the blood of his 
brother, who had been slain, and the word of the Lord 
which came to Ether, that Coriantumr should not fall by 
the sword. And thus we see that the Lord did visit them 
in the fullness of his wrath, and their wickedness and 
abominations, had prepared a way for their everlasting 
destruction. And it came to pass that Shiz did pursue 
Coriantumr eastward, even to the borders of the seashore, 
and there he gave battle unto Shiz for the space of three 
days; and so terrible was the destruction among the armies 
of Shiz, that the people began to be frightened, and began 
, to flee before the armies of Coriantumr; and they fled to 
the land of Corihor, and swept off the inhabitants before 
them, all they that would not join them; and they pitched 
their tents in the valley of Corihor. And Coriantumr 
pitched his tents in the valley of Shurr. Now the valley 
of Shurr was near the hill Comnor; wherefore Coriantumr 
did gather his armies together, upon the hill Comnor,-and 
did sound a trumpet unto the armies of Shiz, to invite them 
forth to battle. And it came to pass that they came forth, 
but were driven again; and they came the second time; 
and they were driven again the secondtime. .And it came 
to pass that they came again the third time, and the bat- 
tle became exceeding sore. And it came to pass that 
Shiz smote upon Coriantumr, that he gave him many dee 
wounds. And Coriantumr having lost his blood, fainted, 
and was carried away as though he were dead. Now the 
loss of men, women and children, on both sides, was so 
great that Shiz commanded his people that they should 
net pursue the armies of Coriantumr; wherefore they re- 
turned to their camp. 








RQOK OF ETHER. , 635 


And it come to pasa when Coriantumr had recovered of 
his wounds, he began to remember the words which Ether 
had spoken unto him; he saw that there had been slain by 
the sword already nearly two millions of his people, and 
he began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain 
4wo millions of mighty men, and also their wives and their 
children. He began to repent of the evil‘which he had 
done; he began.to remember the words which had been 
spoken by the mouth of all the prophets, and he saw them 
tai they were fulfilled, thus far, every whit; and his soul 
mourned, and refused to be comforted. Andit came to 

that he wrote an epistle unto Shiz, desiring him that 
— spare the people, and he would give up the king- 
dom for the sake of the lives of the people. And it came 
fo pass that when Shiz-had received his epistle, he wrote 
an epistle unto Coriantumr, that if he would give himself 
up, that he might slay him with his own sword, that he 


would spare the lives of the people. And it came to pass 


that the people repented not of their iniquity; and the peo- 
ple of Coriantumr were atirred up to anger against the peo- 
ple of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred up to an- 
ger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore the peo- 
ple of Shiz did give battle unto the people of Coriantumr. 
And when Coriantumr saw that he was about to fall, he 
fled again. before the people of Shiz. . And it came to pass 
that he came to the waters of Ripliancum, which, by in- 
terpretation, is large, or to exceed all; wherefore, when 
they came to these waters, they pitched their tents; and 
Shiz also pitched his tents near unto them; and therefore 
on the morrow, they did come to battle. And it came to 
pass that they fought an exceeding sore battle, in which 
Coriantumr was wounded again, and he fainted with the 
loss of blood. And it came to pass that the azmies of Co- 
riantumr did press upon the armies of Shiz, that they.beat 
them, that they caused them to flee before them; and they 
did flee southward, and did pitch their tents in a place 
which was called Ogath. Ard it came to, pass that the 
army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah ; 
and it wae that same hill where my father Mormon did hide 
up the records unto the Lord which were sacred. And it 
-came to pass that they did gather together all the people, up- 
-on all the face of the land, who had not been slain, save it 
was Ether. And it came to pass that Ether did behold ail 
the doings of the people; and he beheld that the people 
‘who were for. Coriantumr, were gathered together to the 
army of Coriantumr; and the people who were for. Shiz. 
.were gathered together to the army of Shiz; wherefor 


r 


554 BOOK-OF ETRER~ 


began to flock ther in armies, throughout all ‘the face 
of the land. And they were divided, and a part of them 
fled to the army of Shiz, and a part of them fied to the 
army of Coriantumr. And so great ‘and lasting had been 
the war, and so long had been the scene of bloodshed and 
carnage, that the whole face of the land was covered with 
the bodies of the dead; and eo swift and speedy was the 
war, that there was none left to bury the dead, but th 
did march forth from the shedding of blood, to the shed- 
ding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men, women and 
children, strewed upon the face of the land, to become a 
rey to the worms of the flesh; and the scént thereof went 
orth upon the face of the land, even upon all the face of 
the land; wherefore the people became troubled by day 
and by night, because of the scent thereof; nevertheless, 
Shiz did not cease to pursue Coriantumir, for he had sworn 
to avenge himself upon Coriantumr of the blood of his 
brother, who had been slain, and the word of the Lord 
which came to Ether, that Coriantumr should not fall by 
the sword. And thus we see that the Lord did visit them 
in the fullness of his wrath, and their wickedness and 
abominations, had prepared a way for their everlasting 
destruction. And it came to pass that Shiz did pursue 
Coriantumr eastward, even to the borders of the seashore, 
and there he gave battle unto Shiz for the space of three 
days; and so terrible was the destruction among the armies 
of Shiz, that the people began to be frightened, and be 
to flee before the armies of Coriantumr; and they fled to 
the land of Corihor, and swept off the inhabitants before 
them, all they that would not join them; and they pitched 
their tents in the valley of Corihor. And Coriantumr 
pitched his tents in the valley of Sharr. Now the valley 
of Shurr wag near the hill Comnor; wherefore Coriantumr 
did gather his armies together, upon the hill Comnor,-and 
did sound a trumpet unto the armies of Shiz, to invite them 
forth to battle. d it came to pass that they came forth, 
but were driven again; and they came the second time; 
and they were driven again the second time. „Andit came 
to pass that they came again the third time, and the bat- 
tle became exceeding sore. And it came to pass that 
Shiz smote upon Coriantumr, that he gave him many dee 
wounds, And Coriantumr having lost his blood, fainted, 
and was carried away as though he were dead. Now the 
loss of men, women and children, on both sides, was so 
great that Shiz commanded his people that they should 
not pursue the armies of Coriantumr; wherefore they re- 
turned to their camp. 


} 





BARK OF ETUER. _ 655 


his wounds, he began to remember the words which Ether 
had spoken unto him; he saw that there had been slain b 
the sword already nearly two millions. of his People, an 
he began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain 
two millions of mighty men, and also their wives and their 
children. He began to repent of the evil which he had 
one; he began.to remember the words which had been 
spoken by the mouth of all the prophets, and he saw them 
hai they were fulfilled, thus far, every whit; and his soul 
mourned, and refused to be comforted. And it came to 
that he wrote an epistle unto Shiz, desiring him thet 
he would spare the — and he would give up the king- 
dom for the sake of the lives of the people. And it came 
fo pass that when Shiz had received his epistle, he wrote 
an epistle unto Coriantumr, that if he would give himself 
up, that he might slay him with his own sword, that he 


And it came to- pasa when Coriantumr.had recovered of 


would spare the lives of the people. And it came to pass 


that the people repented not of their iniquity; and the peo- 
ple of Coriantumr were stirred up to anger against the peo- 
ple of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred up to an- 
ger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore the peo- 
ple of Shiz did give battle unto the people of Coriantumr. 
And when Coriantumr saw that he was about to fall, he 
fled again before the people of Shiz. And it came to pass 
that he came to the waters of Ripliancum, which, by in- 
terpretation, is large, or to exceed all; wherefore, when 
they came to these waters, they pitched their tents; and 
Shiz also pitched his tents near unto them; and therefore 
on the morrow, they did come to battle. And it came to 
pass that they fought an exceeding sore battle, in which 
Coriantumr was wounded again, and he fainted with the 
loss of blood. And it came to pass that the armies of Co- 
riantumr did press upon the armies of Shiz, that they beat 
them, that they caused them to flee before them; and they 
did flee southward, and did pitch their tents in a place 
which was called Ogath. And it came to, pass that the 
army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah; 
and it was that same hill where my father Mormon did hide 
up the records unto the Lord which were sacred. And it 
came to pass that they did gather together all the people, up- 
-on all the face of the land, who had not been slain, save it 
was Ether. And it came to pass that Ether did behold all 
the doings of the people; and he beheld that the people 
who were for Coriantumr, were gathered together to the 
‘army of Coriantumr; and the people who were for. Shiz, 
.were gathered together to the army of Shiz; wherefore 


r 


568 BOOK OF ETENE. 
they were fer the space of four years, gathesiasg together 
the people, that they might.get all who were upon the face 
of the land, and that they might receive all the strength 
arhich it was possibile that they could receive. And it came 
to pass that when they were all — together, every 
‘one to the army which he would, with their wives, and 
their children; both.men, women end children being em- 
ed with weapone of war, having shields, and breast-piatea, 
end head-plates, and being clothed after the manner.of 
wer, they did march forth one against another, to battle; 
and they fought all that-day, and conquered net. And it 
wame to pass that when it was night they were weary, and 
retired to their camps; and after they had retired to their 
camps, they took up a howling and a lamentation for the 
foes of the slain-of their people; and so great were their 
eries, their howlings and lamentations, that it did rend the 
air exceedingly. And it came to pass that on the morrow 
they did go again to battle, and.great and terrible was that 
day; nevertheless they conquered ‘not, and when the night 
ame again, they did rend the air-with their cries, and 
their rab, and their mournings, for the loss of the slain 
of their people. l 

And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an 
epistle unto Shiz, desiring thet he would not come again 
to battle, but that he would teke the kingdom, and spare 
the lives of the people. -But behold, the spirit of the Lord 
had ceased striving with them, and satan had full power 
over the hearts of the people, for they were given up unto 
the herdnesa of their hearts, and- the blindness of their 
minds, that they might be destroyed; wherefore they went 
again to battle. And it came to:pags that they fought all 
that day, and when the night came they slept upon their 
swords; and on the morrow they fought even until the 
night came; and when the night came they were drunken 
with anger, even asa man whois drunken with wine; and 
they slept again upon their swords; and on.the morrow 
they fought again; and when the night came they had all 
fallen by the sword, save it were fifty and two of the 
-ple of Coriantumr, and sixty and:nine of the people of Shiz. 
And ‘it came to pass that they slept upon their swords that 
‘night, and on the mofrow they fought again, and they eon- 
tended in their mights with their swords, and with their 
shields, all that day; and when the night came there were 
thirty and two of the people of Shiz, and twenty and seven 
‘of the people-of Coriantumr. And it came to pass that 
they ate — aad prepared for death on- the morrow. 
And they were lange‘and mighty men, a» to the strength 








BOOK ‘OF MOKONI. ; $67 


of men. And iteame to pass that they fought for the space 
of three hours, and they fainted with the -tosa of blood. 
And it came to pass that when the men of Coriantumr had 
received sufficient strengh, that they could walk, they were 
about to flee for their lives, but behold, Shiz arose, and 
also his men, and he swore in his wrath that he would slay 
Coriantumr, or he would perish by the sword; wherefore 
he did pursue them, and on the morrow he did overtake 
them; and they fought again with the sword. And it 
came to pass that when they had all fallen by the sword, 
save it were Coriantumr and Shiz, behold, Shiz, had faint- 
ed with loss of blood. And it came to pass that when 
Coriantumr had leaned upon his sword, that he rested a 
little, he smote off the head of Shiz. And it came to pass 
that after he had smote off the head of Shiz, that Shiz rais- 
ed upon his hands and fell; and after that he had struggled 
for breath, he died. And it came to pass that Coriantumr 
fell to the earth, and became asif he had no life. And the 
Lord spake unto Ether, and said unto him, go forth. And 
he went forth, and beheld that the words of the Lord had 
all been fulfilled; and he finished his record; (and the hun» 
dredth part I have not written,) and he hid them in a man- 
ner that the people of Limhi did find them. Now the last 
words which are written by Ether, are these, whether the 


' Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the will of 


the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that I am 
saved in the kingdom of God. Amen. 


—+to- 


THE BOOK OF MORONI. 
CHAPTER I. 


Now I, Moroni, after having made an end of abridging 
the account of the people of Jared, I had supposed not to 
have written more, but I have not as yet perished; and I 
make not myself known to the Lamanites, lest they should 
destroy me. For behold, their wars are exceeding fierce 
among themselves; and because of their hatred, they put 
to death every Nephite that will not deny the Christ. And 
I, Moroni, will not deny the Christ; wherefore, I wander 
whithsoever I can, for the safety of mine own life. Where- 
fore I write a few more things, contrary to that which I had 
supposed; for I had walt arg not to have written any 


oe BOOK OF MORON. 


more; but I-wvite-a few mere things, that petheps they may 
be of worth unto my brethren, the Lamanites, in somefe- 
ture day, according to the will of the Lord. 


— hC 


CHAPTER II. 


Tne words of Christ, which he spake unto his disciples, 
the twelve whom he had chosen, as he laid his hands upon 
them. And he called them by name, saying, ye shall call 
en the Father in my name, in mighty prayer; und after ye 
have done this, ye shall have power that on him whom ye 
shall lay your hends, ye shall give the Holy Ghost; andin 
= name shall ye give it, forthusdo mine apostles. Now 
Christ spake these words unto them at the time of his first 
appearing; and the multitude heard it not, but the disci- 
pi s heard it, and on as many as they.laid their hands, fell 

e Holy Ghost. 


4Co 


CHAPTER III. 


Tue manner which the disciples, who were called the 
elders of the church, ordained priests and teachers. After 
they had prayed unto the Father in the name of Christ, 
they laid their hands upon them, and said, in the name of 
Jesus Christ Í ordain you to be a priest; (or if he be a 
teacher,) I ordain you to be a teacher, to preach repentance 
and remission of sins through Jesus Christ, by the endur- 
ance of faith on his name to theend Amen. And after 
this manner did they ordain priests and teachers, accord- 
ing to the gifts and callings of God unto men; and the 
ordained them by the power of the Holy Ghost, whic 
was in them. 


ota iw 


CHAPTER Ivy. 


Tae manner of their elders and priests administering the 
Besh and blood of Christ unto the church. And a 


2 
e 


ministered it according tothe commandments of Christ; 





BOOK OF MORON, 559 


wherdfore we know ‘the munner to be true; and the elder 
or priest did minister it. And they did kneel down with 
the church,'and pray to the Father in the name of Christ, 
snying, O God, 'the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the 
hame of thy Son Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this 
bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they 
may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and wit- 
ness unto thee, O God the Eternal Father, that they are 
willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always 
remember him, and keep his commandments which he hath 
given them, that they may always have his spirit to be with 
them. Amen. 


— VIC 


CHAPTER V. 


THE manner of administering the wine. Behold, the 
took the cup, and said, O God, the Eternal Father, we as 
thee, in the name of thy Son Jesus Christ, to bless and 
sanctify this wine to the souls of all those who drink of it, 
that they may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy 
Son, which was shed for them, that they may witness unto 
thee, O God the Eternal Father, that they do always remem- 
ber him, that they may have his spirit to be with them. 
Amen. 


3+ 


CHAPTER VI. 


Anp now I speak concerning baptism. Behold, elders, 
riests, and teachers were baptized; and they were not 
aptized, save they brought forth fruit meet that they were 
worthy of it; neither did they receive any unto baptism, 
save they came forth with a broken heart and a contrite 
spirit, and witnessed unto the church that they truly re- 

ented of all their sins. And none were received unto 

aptism, save they took upon them the name of Christ, 
having a determination to serve him to the end. And after 
they had been received unto baptism, and were wrought 
upon and cleansed by the power of the Holy Ghost, they 
were numbered among the people of the church of Christ, 
and their names were taken, that they might be remem- 
bered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep 


560 BOOK OF MORONI. 


them in the right way, to keep them contintially watehfal 
unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits of Christ, who 
was the author and the fintsher of their faith. And the 
church did meet together oft, to fast and to pray, and to 
epeak one with another concerning the welfare of their 
souls: and they did meet together oft to partake of bread 
and wine, in remembrance of the Lord Jesus; and they 
were strict to observe that there should be no iniquity 
among them; and whoso was found to commit iniquity, 
and three witnesses of the church did eendemn them be- 
fore the elders; and if they repented not, and confessed 
not, their names were blotted out, and they were not num- 
bered among the people of Christ; but as oft as they re- 
ented, and sought forgiveness, with real intent, they were 
orgiven. And their meetings were conducted by the 
church, after the manner of the workings of the spirit, 
and by the power of the Holy Ghost; for as the power of 
the Holy Ghost led them whether to preach or exhort, or 
to pray, or to supplicate, or to sing, even so it was done. 


—O+o— 


CHAPTER VII. 


Anp now I, Moroni, write a few of the words of my 
father Mormon, which he spake concerning faith, hope 
and charity; for after this manner did he speak unto the 
people, as he taught them in the synagogue which they 

ad built for the place of worship. And now, I, Mormon, 
speak unto you, my beloved brethren; and it is by the 

ace of God, the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, and 

is holy will, because of the gift of his calling unto me, 
that I am permitted to speak unto you at this time; where- 
fore I would speak unto you that are of the church, that 
are the peaceable followers of Christ, and that have ob- 
tained a sufficient hope, by which ye can enter into the 
rest of the Lord, from this time henceforth, until ye shall 
rest with him in heaven. And now my brethren, I judge 
these things of you because of your peaceable walk with 
the children of men; for I remember the word of God, 
Which saith, by their works ye shall know them; for if 
their works be good, then they are good also. Fr behold, 
God hath said, a man being evil, cannot do that which is 
good; for if he offereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except 
e shall do it with real intent, it profiteth him nothing. 
For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. 





-WOOK ‘GF MORON? "S61 


- For behold, if a man being ‘evil, giveth a gift, he-doth -it 
grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same 
‘es if fie had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted 
‘evil before God. And likewise also is it counted evil unto 
‘amen, if he shall pray, and not with real intent of heart; 
-yea, and it profiteth him nothing; for God receiveth none 
‘such; wherefore, ‘a man being evil, cannot do that which 
is goed; neither will he give a good gift. For behold, a 
‘bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water; neither 
‘can-a-good fountain bring forth bitter water; wherefore a 
‘man being a servant of the devil, cannot follow Christ; 
and if he follow Christ, he cannot be a servant of the 
‘devil. Wherefore, all things which ure good, cometh of 
God; ‘and that which is evil, cometh of the devil; for the 
‘devil isan enemy unto God, and fighteth against him con- 
‘tinually, ‘and inviteth and enticeth to sin, and to do that 
which is evil continually. But behold, that which is of 
God, inviteth and enticeth to do good continually; where- 
‘fore, every thing which inviteth and enticeth to do good, 
‘and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired of God. 
Wherefore take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not 
judge that ‘which is evil'to be of God, or that which ‘is 
poo and of God, to be of the devil. For behold, my 
brethren, it is — unto you to judge, that ye may know 
good from evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye 
may know with a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is 
from the dark night. For behold, the spirit of Christ is 
given to-every man, that they may know good from evil; 
wherefore I shew unto you the way to judge: for every thing 
which inviteth to do good, and to- persuade to believe in 
Christ, is sent forth by the powerand gift of Christ; where- 
fore ye may know with a perfect knowledge, it is of God; 
but whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and be- 
lieve not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then 
ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil, 
for after this manner doth the devil work, for he per- 
suadeth no man to do good, no not one; neither doth his 
angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him. 
nd now my brethren, seeing that ye know the light 

by which ye may judge, which light is the light of Christ, 
see that ye do not ju ige wrongfully; for with that same 
judgment which ye judge, ye shall also be judged. Where- 
fore I beseech of you, brethren, that ye should search dil- 
igently in the light of Christ, that ye may know good from 
evil; and if ye will lay hold upon every good thing, and 
condemn it not, ye certainly will be a child of Christ. And 
now, my brethren, how is it possible that ye can lay hold 


562 BOOK OF MORONI. 


. upon every good thing? And now I come to that faith, of 
which I said I would speak; and I will tell you the way 
whereby ye may lay hold on every good thing. For be- 
hold, God knowing all things, being from everlasting to 
everlasting, behold he sent angels to minister unto the 
children of men, to make manifest concerning the comi 

of Christ; and in Christ there should come every pied 
thing. And God also declared unto prophets by his own 
mouth, that Christ should come. And behold, there were 
diverse ways that he did menifest things unto the children 
of men, which were good; and all things which are good, 
cometh of Christ, otherwise men were fallen, and there 
could no good thing come unto them. Wherefore, by the 
ministering of angels, and by every word which proceeded 
forth out of the mouth of God, men began to exercise 
faith in Christ; and thus by faith, they did lay hold upon 
every good thing; and thus it was until the coming of 
Christ. And after that he came, men also were saved by 
faith in his name; and by faith, they become the sons of 
God. And as sure as Christ liveth, he spake these words 
unto our fathers, saying, whatsoever thing ye shall ask 
the Father in my name, which is good, in faith believing 
that ye shall receive, behold it shall be done unto you. 
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, hath miracles ceased, 
because Christ hath ascended into heaven, and hath set 
down on the right hand of God, to claim of the Father 
his rights of mercy which he hath upon the children of 
men; for he hath answered the ends of the law, and he 
claimeth all those who have faith in him; and they 
who have faith in him, will cleave unto every good thing; 
wherefore he advocateth the cause of the children of men; 
and he dwelleth eternally in the heavens. And because 
he hath done thia, my beloved brethren, hath miracles 
ceased? Behold I sdy unto you, nay; neither have an- 
gels ceased to minister unto the children of men. For 
behold, they are subject unto him, to minister according 
to the word of his command, shewing themselves unto 
them of strong faith and a firm mind, in every form of 
godliness. And the office of their ministry is, to call 
men unto repentance, and to fulfil and to do the work of 
the covenants of the Father which he hath made unto 
the children of men, to prepare the way among the chil- 
dren of men, by declaring the word of Christ unto the 
chosen vessels of the Lord, that they may bear testimony 
of him; and by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the 
way that the residue of men may have faith in Christ, that 
the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearta, accord- 





BOOK OF. MORONI. . 583, 


ing to tre power thereof; and after this manner bringeth to 
pass the. Father the covenants which he hath made unto. 
the children of men. And Christ hath said, if ye will 
have faith in me, ye shall have power to do whatsoever 
thing is expedient in me. And he hath said, repent all ye 
ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in 
my name, and have faith in me, that ye may be saved. 
And now my beloved brethren, if this be the case that 
these things are true which I have spoken unto you, and 
God will shew unto you with power and great glory at the. 
last day, that they are true; and if they are true, has the 
day of miracles ceased? or have angels ceased to appear 
unto the children of men? or has he withheld the power 
of the Holy Ghost from them? or will he, go long as time 
shali last, or the earth shall stand, or there shall be one 
man upon the face thereof to be saved? Behold I say unto 
ou nay, for it is by faith that miracles are wrought; and 
itis by faith thet angels — and minister unto men; 
wherefore if these things have ceased, wo be unto the 
children of men, for it is because ‘of unbelief, and all is 
vain; forno man can be saved, according to the words of 
Christ, save they shall have faith in his name; wherefore, 
if these things have ceased, then has faith ceased also; and 
awfulis the state of man: for they are as though there had 
been no redemption made. But behold, my beloved breth- 
ren, I judge better things of you, for I judge that ye have 
faith in Christ because of your meekness; for if ye have 
not faith in him, then ye are not fit to be numbered among 
the poeple of his church. And again my beloved brethren, 
I would speak unto you concerning hope. How isit that 
ye can attain unto faith, save ye shall have hope? And 
what is it that, ye shall hope for? Behold I say unto you, 
that ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ 
and the power of his resurrectiọn, to be raised unto life 
eternal; and this because of your faith in him according 
to the promise; wherefore, if a man have faith, he must 
needs have hope; for without faith there cannot be any 
hope. And again, behold I say unto you, that he cannot 
have faith and hope, save he shall be meek and lowly of 
heart; if so, his faith and hope is vain, for none is accept- 
able before God, save the meek and lowly of heart; and 
if a man be meek and lowly in heart, and confesses by the 
power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he must 
needs have charity; for if he have not charity, he is noth- 
ing; wherefore he must needs have charity. And charity 
suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not 
puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, 





58a BOCK OF. MORONL 


thinketh no evil, and rejoiceth not in iniquity, bad rojei 

in the truth, beareth. all things, believeth all things, 
ali things; endureth all things; wherefore, my beloved. 
brethren, if ye have not charity, ye are nothing, tor charity: 
never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity, which ia 
the greatest of all, for all things must fail; bat charity is 
the pure love of Christ, and it endureth: forever; and whoso: 
ie found possessed of it.at the last day, it shall be well 
with them. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, pray unte 
the Father with all the energy of heart, that. ye may be filled: 
with this love which he hath bestowed upon all whe ee 
true followers of his Son Jesus Chriat, that ye may. 

the sons of God, that when be shall appear, we shall. ba 
like him; for we shall see him ashe is, that we may have 
this hope, that we may be purified even as he ig. pure. 
Amen. 


i o Ge 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Ax epistle of my father Mormon, written: to: me Moroni : 
and it was written unto me soon after my calling to the 
sandal And on this wise did he write unto me, ssying, 
my beloved son Moroni, I rejoice exceedingly that pe 
Lord Jesus Christ hath been mindful of you, and hath. 
called you to his ministry, and to his holy work. I am: 
mindful of you always in my prayers, continually praying 
unto God the Father in the name of his holy child, Jesus, 
that he, al ia his infinite goodness and grace, will keep 
you through the endurance of faith on his name to the end. 
And now my eon I speak unto you concerning that which 

ieveth me exceedingly; for it grieveth me that there 

ould disputations rise among you. For if I have learned 
the truth, there has been disputations among you concern- 
ing the baptism of your little children. And now my son, 
I desire that ye should labor diligently, that this gross error 
should be removed from among you; for, for this intent I 
have written this epistle. For immediately after I had 
learned these things of you, I inquired of the Lord con 
cerning the matter. And the word of the Lord came-te 
me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying, listen to the 
words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord, and your Ged. 
Behold, I came into the world not to eall the righteous, but 
sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but 
they that are sick; wherefore little children are whole, for 











Sa e A — 


800K OF MORONI 505 


they! are not capable: of committing sin; wherefore the 
epree of Adam is taken from them in me, that.it hath no 
power over them; and the law. of. cireumcision is done 
away in me. And after this manner did the Holy Ghost 
manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore my beloved 
sen, I-know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye 
should baptize little children. Behold I say unto you, that 
this thing shall ye teach, repentance and baptism unto those 
who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, 
teach parents that they must repent and be. baptized, and 
humble themselves as their little children, and they shall 
all be saved with their little children: and theit little child- 
ron: need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, bap- 
tism is-unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments 
unto the.remission of sins. But little children are alive in 
Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, 
God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a re» 
specter to.persons; for how many little children have died 
without baptism. Wherefore, if little children could not 
be saved: without baptism, these must have gone to an ends 
less hell. Behold I say unto you, that he that supposeth 
that little children need baptism, is in the gall of bitters 
ness, andin the bonds of iniquity; for he hath neither faith, 
hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while 
in.the thought, he must go down to heh. For awful is the 
wickedness. ta suppose that God saveth one child because 
of: baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no 

tism. Wo be unto him that shall pervert the ways of: 
the: Lord .after this manner, for they shall perish, except 
they: repent, Behold, I speak with boldness, having au- 
thority: from God; and.I fear. not what man can do; for 
perfect love casteth out all fear; and Iam filled with charity, 
which is everlasting love; wherefore all children are alike 
unto me; wherefore I love little children with a perfect 
love; and they are all alike, and partakers of salvation. 
For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a change- 
able being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all 
eternity. Little children cannot repent; wherefore it is 
awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto 
them, for: they: are all alive in him because of hia mercy. 
And he that saith that little children need baptism, denieth 
the mercies of Christ,and setteth at nought the atonement 
ofhim and the power of* his —— Wo unto such, 
— are in: danger of death, hell, and an endless tor- 
ment. I speak it boldly, God hath commanded me. Listen 
unto them.and give-heed, — stand against you at the 


566 BOOK OF MORONL 


judgment seat of Christ. For behold that all little children 
are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the 
law. For the power of redemption cometh on all they that 
have no law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he 
that is under no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto 
such baptism availeth nothing. But it is mockery before 
God, denying the mercies of Christ, and the power of his 
holy spirit, and putting trust in dead works. Behold, my 
son, this thing ought not to be; for repentance is unto them 
that are under condemnation, and under the curse of a 
broken law. And the first fruits of repentance is baptism; 
and baptism cometh by faith, unto the fulfilling the com- 
mandments; and the fulfilling the commandments bring- 
eth remission of sins; and the remission of sins bringeth 
meekness, and lowliness of heart; and because of meek- 
ness and lowliness of heart, cometh the visitation of the 
Holy Ghost, which comforter filleth with hope and perfect 
love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer, until 
the end shall come, when all the saints shall dwell with 
God. Behold, my son, I will write unto you again, if I go 
not out soon against the Lamanites. Behold, the pride of- 
this nation, or the people of the Nephites, hath proven their 
destruction, except they should repent. Pray for them, 
my son, that repentance may come unto them, But behold, 
I fear lest the spirit hath ceased striving with them; and 
in this part of the land they are also seeking to put down 
all power and authority, which cometh from God; and they 
are denying the Holy Ghost. And after rejecting so great 
a knowledge, my son, they must perish soon, unto the ful- 
filling of the prophecies which were spoken by the proph- 
ets, as well as the words of our Savior himself. Farewell, 
my son, until I shall write unto you, or shall meet you 
again. Amen. 


-040 


CHAPTER IX. 
The second epistle of Mormon to his son Moroni. 


My beloved son, I write unto you again, that ye may 
know that I am yet alive; but “I write somewhat that 
which is grievous. For behold, I have had a sore battle 
with the Lamanites, in which we did not conquer; and 
Archeantua has fallen bY the sword, and also Luram and 
Emron; yea, and we have lost agreat number of our 


. BOOK OF MORONI. 567 


choice men. And now behold, my son, I fear -lest the 
. Lamanites shall destroy this people, for they do not repent, 
-and satan stirreth them up continually to anger, one with 
another. Behold, J am laboring with them continually; 
and when I speak the word of God with sharpness, they 
‘tremble and anger against me; and when I use no sharp- 
‘ness, they harden their hearts against it; wherefore I fear 
lest the spirit of the Lord hath ceased striving with themi. 
For so exceedingly do they anger, that it seemeth me that 
they have no fear of death; and they have lost their love, 
one towards another; aud they thirst after blood and re- 
venge continually. And now my beloved son, notwith- 
standing their hardness, let us labor diligently; for if we 
should cease to labor, we should be brought under con- 
demnation; for we have a labor to perform whilst in this 
tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer the enemy of all 
righteousness, and rest our souls in the kingdom of God. 

And now I write somewhat concerning the sufferings of 
thispeople. For according to the knowledge which I have 
received from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many 
prisoners, which they took from the tower of Sherrizah; 
and there were men, women and children. And the hus- 
bands and fathers of those women and children they have 
slain; and they feed the women upon the flesh of their 
husbands, and the children upon the flesh of their fathers; 
and no water, save a little, do they give unto them. And 
notwithstanding this great abomination of the Lamanites, 
it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum. For 
behold, many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they 
taken prisoners: and after depriving them of that which 
-was most dear and precious above all things, which is 
chastity and virtue; and after they had done this thing, 
they did murder them in a most cruel manner, torturing 
their bodies even unto death; and after they have done 
this, they devour their flesh like unto wild beasts, because 
of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it for a token 
of bravery. O my beloved son, how can a people like 
this, that. are without civilization; (and only a few years 
have passed away, and they were a civil and a delightsome 
people;) but O my son, how can a people like this, whose 
delight is inso much abomination, how can we expect that 
God will stay his hand in judgment against us? Behold, 
. my heart cries wo unto this people. Come out in judg- 
ment, O God, and hide their sins, and wickedness, and 
abominations from before thy face. And again, my son, 
there are many widows and their daughters, who remain 
in Sherrizah; and that part of the provisions which the 


L 


&68 BOOK. OF :MORDII. 


Lamanites did not carry away, behold, the anny :of Zene- 
phi has carried away, and left them to wander whither- 
soever they can for food; and many.old women do faint 
by the way and die. And the army which ie with me, is 
weak; and the armies of the Lamanitesare betwixt Sher. 
Tizah and me; and as many as have fled to the army of 
Aaron, have fallen victims to their awfal brutality. Othe 
depravity of my people! they are without order aud with- 
out mercy. Behold, Iam but.a man, and Ihave but the 
strength of a man, and I cannot any longer-enforce my 
commands; and they have become strong in their perver- 
sion; and they are alike brutal, aparing none, neither. old 
nor young; and the — in every thing ‘save that 
which is good; and the sufierings of our women and our 
children upon all the face of this land, doth exceed every 
' thing; yea, tongue cannot tell, neither can it be written. 
And now my son, I dwell no longer upon this horrible 
ecene. Behold, thou knowest the wickedness of this peo- 
ple; thou knowest that they are without principle, and 
past feeling; and their wickedness doth exceed that of 
the Lamanites, Behold, my son, I cannot recom 
them unto God lest he should smite.me. But bebold, my 
son, Í recommend thee unto God, and J trust in Christ that 
thou wilt be saved; and I pray unto God that he would 
spare thy life, to witness the return of his people unto 
him, or their utter destruction; for I know that they must 
perish, except they repent and return unto him; and if 
they perish it will be like unto the Jaredites, because of 
the wilfulness of their hearts, seeking for blood -and re- 
venge. And if itso be that they perish, we know that 
many of our brethren have dissented over. untothe Laman- 
ites, and many more will also dissent over unto them; 
wherefore, write somewhat a few things, if thou art 
ered: and I «hall .perish and-not:see thee; but I trust 
that I may see the soon; for I have:saered records thet I 
would deliver up unto thee. Mysan, be faithful in Christ; 
and may not the things which I have written, grieve thee, 
to weigh thee down unto death, but may-Christ lift thee 
up, and-may his sufferings and death, and the shewing 
his body unto our fathers, and his mercy and long suffer- 
ing, and the hape of his glory and of eternal life, rest in 
your mind forever. And may the grace of God the Father, 
whose throne is high in the heavens, and our Lord. Jesus 
Christ, who sitteth on the right hand af his power, until 
all things shall become gubject unto him, be, and abide 
with you forever. Amen. 











BOOK OF MORONI. 569. 


CHAPTER X. 


Now I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemeth me good; 
and I write unto my brethren the Lamanites; and I woald 
that they should know that more than four hundred and 
twenty years have passed away, since the sign was given 
of-the coming of Christ. And I seal up ‘diese records, 
after I have spoken a few words by way of exhartation 
unto you. Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall 
vead these things if it be wisdom in God that ye should 
read them, that ye would remember how merciful the 
Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the crea- 
‘tion of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall re- 
ceive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. And 
when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you 
that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of 
Christ, if these things are not true; andif ye shall ask with 
a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he 
will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the 
Holy Ghost; and by the power of the Holy Ghost, ye 
may know the truth of all things. And whatsoever 
thing is good, is just and true; wherefore, nothing that 
is good denieth the Christ, but acknowledgeth that he 
is. And ye may know that he is, by the power of the 
Holy Ghost; wherefore I would exhort you, that ye deny 
not the power of God; for he worketh by power, ac- 
cording to the faith of the children of men, the same to- 
day and to-morrow, and forever. And again I exhort you, 
my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they 
are many; and they come from the same God. And there 
are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it 
is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given 
by the manifestations of the spirit of God unto men, to 

rofit them. For behold, to one is given by the spirit of 

od, that he may teach the word of wisdom; and to an- 
other, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the 
same spirit; and to another exceeding great faith; and to 
another, the gifts of healing by the same spirit. And 
again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; and 
again, to another that he may propie concerning all 
things; and again, to another, the beholding of angels and 
ministering spirits; and again, to another, all kinds of 
tongues; and again, to another, the interpretation of lan- 
guages and of divers kinds of tongues. And all these gifts 
come by the epirit of Christ; and they come unto every 
man severally, according ee will, And I would exhort 


Sw BOOK OP MORONI. 


you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every 

gift cometh of Christ. And I would exhort you, 
my beloved brethren, that ye remember that he is the 
game yesterday, to-day, and forever, and that all these 
gifts of which I have speken, which are spiritual, never 
will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, 
only according to the unbelief of the children of mer. 
Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith, 
there must also be hope; and if there mast be hope, there 
must also be charity; and except ye have charity, ye can 
in no wise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can 
ye be saved in the kingdom of God, if ye have not faith; 
neither can ye if ye have no hope; and if ye have no hope, 
ye must needs be in despair; and despeir cometh because 
of iniquity. And Christ truly said unto our fathers, if ye 
have faith, ye can do all things which is expedient unto 
me. And now I speak unto ail the ends of the earth, that 
if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God slali be 
done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief. 
And wo be unte the children of men, if this be the case; 
for there shall be none that doeth good among you, no not 
one. For if there be one among you that doeth good, he 
shall work the power and gifts of God. And wo 
unto them who shall do these things away and die, for 
they die in their sine, and they cannot be saved in the 
kingdom of God; and I speak it according to the words of 
Christ, and I lie not. And I exhort you to remember 
these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall 
know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God, 
and the Lord God will say unto you, did I not declare my 
words unto you, which were written by this man, like as 
one crying from the dead? yea, even as one speaking out 
of the dust? I declare these things unto the fulfilling of 
the prophecies. And behold, they shall proceed forth 
out of the mouth of the everlasting God; and his word 
shali hiss forth from generation to generation. And God 
shall shew unto you, that that which I have written is 
true. And again I would exhort you, that ye would come 
unto Christ, and Jay hold upon every good gift, and touch 
not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing. And awake, and 
arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy 
beautiful garments, O daughter of Zion, and strengthen 
thy stakes, and enlarge thy borders forever, that thoa 
mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the 
eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of 
Israel, may be fulfilled. Yea, come unto Christ, and be 
“erfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness, 


BOOK OF MORONI. Sit 


end if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and 
love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is 
his grace sufficient far you, that by his grace ye may be 
ilet in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are per- 
ect in Christ, ye can in no wise deny the power of God. 
And again, if ye, by the grace of God are perfect in Christ, 
and deny not hie power, then are ye sanctified in Christ 
by the grace of God, through the shedding of the bloog:of 
rist, which ie in the eovenant.of the Father, unto the 
Femission of your sins, that ye become holy without spot. 
And now I bid unto all, farewell. I soon gp to- rest in 
the patadise of God, until ag Bel ag and hody shell again. 
yeunite, and I am brought triumphant through the. 
atr, to mest you before the pleasing bar of the great Jo- 
hovah, the eternal Judge oí both quick and dead, Amen. 


THE TESTIMONY OF THREE WITNESSES. 


Ba it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto 
whom thw work shall come, that we, through the grace of God tlle Fath- 
er, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have geen the plates which eontain this 
record, which is a record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamsn- 
ites, their brethren, and also of the people of Jared, who came from the 
tower of which hath been spoken; and we also know that they have 
been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice bath declar- 
ed it unto us; wherefore we know of a surety, that the work Bs true. 
And we also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the 
plates; and they have been shewn unto us by the power of God, and 
not of man. And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of 
God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, 
that we beheld and saw the plates, and the éngravings thereon ; and we 
know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, 
that we beheld and bear record that these things are true; and it is 
marvelous in our eyes, nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded 
us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the 
~ commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things. And we 
know that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the 
blood of all mèn, and be found spotless before the judgment seat of 
Christ, and shall dwell with him eternally in the heavens. And the 
honor be tothe Father, and tothe Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is 
one God. Amen. 

OLIVER COWDERY, 
DAVID WHITMER, 
MARTIN HARRIS. 


AND ALSO THE TESTIMONY OF EIGHT WITNESSES. 


Bz it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto 
whom this work shall come, that Joseph Smith, Jr., the translator of this 
work, has shewn unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which 
have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said 
Smith has translated, we did handle with our hands: and we also saw 
the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance ofancient work, 
and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of 
aoberness, that the said Smith has shewn unto us, for we have seen and 
Gefted, and know of a surety, that the said Smith has got the plates of 
which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world to wit- 
ness ur‘s the world that which we have seen; and we lie not, God 
oearing wanees of it. 

CHRISTIAN WHITMER, 
JACOB WHITMER, 
PETER WHITMER, JR. 
JOHN WHITMER, 
HIRAM PAGE, 

JOSEPH SMITH, Sex., 
HYRUM SMITH, 
SAMUEL H. SMITH. 


— 











SEPE ESOT 








A 


4 038 326 880 